Scaling memcached at Facebook:

While qualities like Fault tolerance, efficiency, consistency and performance are required at all levels, at  
the scale of facebook some qualities require more effort than others to achieve 
Read operations fetch data from a variety of data sources like MYSQL, HDFS and other backend Services 
Memcached provides simple set of operationsi.e. GET,SET and DELETE 
Memcache i.e. facebook's version is primarily used as a demand filled lookaside cache 
Cached data is deleted instead of updated because deletes are idempotent 
It is based on a master slave architecture, with replication 
Read heavy workload of facebook and wide fanout are the main concerns when we have single cluster of servers 
As it becomes necessary to scale to multiple frontend clusters, data replication is needed among those clusters 
Colocated clusters are in regions and a master region provides a data stream to keep non master 
regions up to date 
2 major design goals:
1. Any change must impact a user facing or operational issue 
2. We treat the probability of reading transient stale data as a parameter to be tuned 
(MY THOUGHTS: Basically its a practical tradeoff, stale data reads are inevitable, but the user experience 
is on a spectrum which shouldn't go down more than needed)
Either the latency of fetching cached data should be reduced or the load on servers in cases of cache misses 
A single user request can result in hundreds of memcache requests. 
They provision hundreds of memcached servers in a cluster to reduce load on databases and other services 
Items are distributed across the memcached servers through consistent hashing

All web servers communicate with every memcached server within a short period of time 
This all to all communication pattern can cause incast congestion. This leads to packet loss, retransmissions 
and high tail latency 

Data replication can alleviate single server bottleneck but leads to significant memory inefficiencies 

The memcache client (which runs on each web server) serves a range of functions including serialization, 
compression, request routing, error handling and request batching. 

The team structured their web application code to minimize the number of network round trips necessary to respond 
to page requests.
They constructed a DAG representing the dependencies between data. A webserver uses this DAG to maximize the number 
of items fetched concurrently. On average these batches consist of 24 keys per request.

Memcached servers do not communicate with each other. When appropriate they embedded the complexity of the system 
into stateless clients rather than in memcached servers. 
Clients use UDP and TCP to communicate with memcached servers

Client logic is provided as two components: a library that can be embedded into applications or as a standalone 
proxy named mcrouter. The team relies on UDP for get requests.

[[[
    DETOUR:
    UDP stands for User Datagram protocol. TCP for Transmission Control.
    TCP is connection oriented and is reliable as it guarantees delivery of packets in the 
    same order they were sent. UDP is connectionless
    and the packets may get lost or arrive out of order.
    TCP establishes a connection using a 3 way handshake and maintains a state of each connection. However 
    it is slower than UDP. 


]]]

Since UDP is connectionless, each thread in the webserver is allowed to directly communicate with memcached 
servers, bypassing the mcrouter (which uses tcp). Mcrouter was made by Facebook and stands for memcacehd protocol router.
It acts as a middleware between applications (clients) and memcached servers. 

Again UDP is not used in mcrouter because of incast congestion. 

The UDP implementation detects packets that are dropped or recieved out of order and it uses sequence numbers to 
check that and then it treats them as errors on the client side. 
But the error is not fixed. It is just flagged for eg so that if one image doesn't load in one story of the newsfeed 
the story can be skipped from UI or shown in another infinite scroll iteration

Under peak load it is observed that 0.25% requests are discarded. About 80% of these 0.25% are due to 
late or dropped packets while 20% are due to out of order delivery. 

For eg if its out of order, the feed text and image might mismatch, or something. SO it is skipped. 

The standard deviation in latencies using TCP vs UDP was less than 1% and relying on UDP alone can  
lead to 20% reduction in latency. 

Memcache clients implement flow control mechanisms to limit incast congestion.


Clients use a sliding window to control the number of outstanding requests 

Similar to TCP's congestion control mechanism, the size of the sliding window grows upon a successful request 
and shrinks when a request goes unanswered.

[[[
    DETOUR:
    Little's law L=λ*W
    Relates the average number of items in the system (L) with 
    average arrival rate of items (lambda) and average time an item spends on the system (W)

    Mathematically simple and obvious, but used in analysis a lot. Not sure why formalized as a law 

]]]


The facebook team introduced the mechanism of "Leases" to address 2 main problems 
1. Stale sets- Occurs when a web server sets a value on the memcache that does not reflect the latest value 
that should be cached. This can occur when concurrent updates in the memcache get reordered.   
2. Thundering herds - Occurs when a specific key undergoes heavy read and write activity.  
In a thundering herd, since the write activity invalidates the recently set values, many reads default to  hitting 
the db.

A memcached instance gives a lease to a client to set data back into the cache when that client experiences  a 
cache miss. The lease is a 64 bit token bound to the specific key the client originally requested. 

With the lease token, memcached can verify if the data should be stored and thus have only  1 write instead of 
concurrent ones. Verification can fail if memcached has invalidated the lease token due to receiving a delete 
request for the item.
This also prevents stale sets in a manner similar to how load-link/store conditional operates

[[[
    DETOUR:

    Load-Link/Store-conditional 

    Its a pair of instructions used in multithreading to achieve synchronisation.
    Load-Link returns the current value of a memory location while a subsequent store conditional to the same 
    memory location will store a new value only when no updates have occured to the location since load-link. 

    This implements a lock free, atomic, read-modify-write operation.


]]]







Google Spanner:

Starting from paxos and Google spanner works on top of it. 
Paxos is a fundamental consensus algorithm. It ensures that multiple nodes agree on a single 
value even if some nodes or messages fail 
Paxos ensures that a group of unreliable nodes can still reach to a consensus. For eg if a group thinks 
of ordering pizza, even if some people don't respond, it doesn't reach any other conclusion 
There are 3 roles in paxos 
1. Proposer 
2. Acceptor 
3. Learner 
Its like a single group of people. To avoid livelock, a single proposer is chosen. And the idea 
of suboptimal proposals is corrected by having multiple paxos 

Here spanner comes into play. 
Spanner is basically at the highest level a database that shards data across multiple paxos machines 
spread all over the world 
Replication is used for global availability and geographic locality 
Clients automatically failover between the replicas 

Spanner automatically reshards data across machines as the amount of data or the number of servers 
changes and it automatically migrates data across machines or even across data centers 
to balance load and in response to failures 
Spanner is designed to scale upto a million machines and trillions of database rows 

Spanner's main focus is maintaining cross datacenter replicated data 
Spanner evolved from a Bigtable like versioned key value store into a temporal multiversion database 
Spanner supports general purpose transactions and provides an SQL based query language 

Spanner provides externally consistent reads and writes and globally consistent reads across the database at 
a timestamp
These features enable it to support consistent backups, consistent mapreduce executions, atomic schema 
updates all at global scale and even in the presence of ongoing transactions 

The key enabler is the TrueTime API. The truetime api directly exposes clock uncertainty. If the 
uncertainty is large, spanner slows down and waits out that time.
Google's cluster management software provides an implementation of TrueTime api. 

Conservatively reporting uncertainty is essential for correctness. Keeping the uncertainty bound small 
is necessary for performance.

A spanner deployment is called a universe 
3 universes-> test/playground, dev/prod and prod only 

A zone has 1 zone master and between 100 and several thousand spanservers

At the bottom, each spanserver is responsible for between 100 and 1000 instances of a data structure called a 
tablet 

A tablet's state is stored in a set of B-tree like files and a write ahead log all on a distributed file 
system called Colossus which is a successor to Google File System 


The layer for each spanserver from bottom to top:
- Colossus 
-- Tablet 
--- Paxos 
---- Replica 
-----Leader 
------Lock Table 
-------Transaction Manager
--------Participant Leader 

The paxos implementation supports long lived leaders with time based leader leases whose length defaults 
to 10 seconds 

The current spanner implementation logs every paxos write twice, once in the tablet's log and once in the paxos log
Having a long lived paxos leader is key to effectively managing a lock table 




