1. Virth-> Net worth of each human
2. Rent a friend 
3. Rate->Rate any person in your contacts out of 10, give anonymous reviews.
4. Homeopathy app
5. Productivity tracker and "worth measurer" for businesses
6. Nuclear power companies in India
7. Anonymize data to access foreign servers without user data going to said servers
8. Specialised AI agents for niche tasks, like real estate value AI, valuation of a car, etc
9. Making an earbud for telling if something is true or false about what you hear and fact checking someone
10. Distributed/Decentralized file storage for storing data in available computers.
11. Funding like YCombinator for Indian startups
12. Make clothes with advertisements for content creators
13. Shirts with 3d art and that seem like they will come out
14. App for self discovery, and self reflection
15. App to do a good deed and nudge users and gamify good behaviors
16. Crowdfunding personal development
17. Local politician to voter connect
18. Alert govt and local officials for any particular problem
19. Social media app based on location to get posts based on what is happening around us (Locality)
20. Rent actors
21. Practical engineering youtube series-> Making full projects without much knowledge of anything 
just like how you would in a job
22. AI assisted crime judgement, legal tool instead of authority
23. Student productivity tool for students and teachers. JIRA+ Agile+ productivity suite
24. Dating app with company matching people. Marriage as a service/Dating as a service . Not just stopping
after dating/marriage. Doing everything and company taking responsibility for friendships and other stuff.
25. Employ delivery boys for restaurants in each area. Dabbawala for each area.
26. Text to animation like manim 
27. Veritasium + 3blue1brown videos for computer science, system design, etc. Not being a sellout and explaining 
critical ideas deeply and clearly while learning, ensuring that not only I can be more successful than "traditional"
youtubers but also more importantly learn things that can be valuable for an entrepreneur.
28. Wall of humanity. Unfiltered posts of the internet, showing what is popular in the world.
Pulse, Wall or 
29. DB analytics dashboard 
30. Any compute or storage cost optimizer.
31. Making a book search engine.
32. AI for books 
33. Quiz app for students for each book, chapter, etc.
34. Socratic teaching. Give any topic and program will ask questions using socratic method (already existing verticals)
35. P2P + Video streaming.
36. Decentralized instagram 
37. Ephemeral storage decentralized platform for everything. Instagram, Youtube, etc.
38. WRLD- > Choose any country, state, or even city, and immerse yourself into it.
Will get local creators, news, what is going on, food spots, etc.
39. Explicit chatbot hindi that don't refuse to do everything chatgpt or other models  do 
40. Investing business earnings in youtube channel with mega kitchen and balanced diet.
41. Huge demand in india's financial and hedge fund sector. I can do something code and AI related. 
42. Employee productivity and score tracker app for employers.
43. ** Codelipi-> Youtube channel + Company with systematized way of explaining things 
No face and identity, and high quality explanations that make sense even to a 5 year old. 
Do something slightly different and then innovate furiously within that. Train yourself for customer satisfaction, 
systems level thinking, and making a machine that sustains without me. 
Make a khan academy thinking for dsa and computing so that anyone with basic knowledge of any topic can teach it. Make 
explanations systematic and innovate. The main goal should be to train yourself for innovation and all the other things 
needed for phase 2 i.e. your own company that gives something tangible. 
The main goal is training for systems level thinking and training for the meta skills needed for a successful company.
Its fine as a phase 1, but teaching is intangible and I don't ever want to take credit for other's successes, so 
I will just use this as a training ground for learning business things, and getting MVP right, and doing many necessary 
things to get good at meta skills.
This is a marketing gap I should exploit. Thats it. I don't need to overthink. Just do.
I need to make it one of the best training grounds for systems thinking. No need to pick anything else. Pick THIS.
Make it SO good that its impossible to NOT UNDERSTAND things. Train this aspect with info and don't overthink. This can 
be trained even with a toilet paper company. THAT is the invaluable thing that will help me train as an entrepreneur 
and later start my own company.
Make teaching like a cooking recipe. It should work regardless of who does it. This will train entrepreneurial skills. 
Make it anti cult and anti ego driven. Don't avoid personality for the fear of a cult of personality. 
Use this as a project to systematize and codify teaching which can be a new startup addition. There is a huge 
marketing gap where teaching is ego driven. This is similar to interviewpen and oversimplified 
without animation, or 3blue1brown without animation but in hindi. If I can scale this kind of business
I would learn how scaling businesses actually works. Even failure will be success. 

Do it for yourself and your understanding. Teaching is best approached as a selfish endeavor. Don't take credit of other 
people's hard work. Just provide what you think is best and adjust with feedback. That will ONLY DEVELOP entrepreneurial 
skills if I approach it the right way and develop the long term skills I want. Its a great pressure cooker, but not a good 
ROI business. Take it as a pressure cooker, learn and move on.
Teaching needs to be a way to understand and explore things you don't understand yet.
My main job is entrepreneurship just like how feynman's main job was research. I don't identify as a teacher and I wont do 
it just for teaching. I am learning. NEVER MAKE TEACHING YOUR IDENTITY, and as soon as it starts being an identity, stop.
Approach it as a serious hobby.

44. Gaali gpt/ sex chat gpt-> Extremely explicit and deranged chats for fun.





Expanding on this:

what would it look like?
1. dashboards for individual tracking 
2. AI generated score for achievements 


First step:
Make a tool for resume scoring. Any resume uploaded gives a score of impact and estimate toughness of a project. 


This is the first project I will make

resume analyzer/ scorer.







Write detailed ideas for each product as narratives VVIMP




Figure out the core human want, and figure out the core human drive.

Make communities where others keep track of your productivity at any task. 
Community-> For making a community of like minded people focusing on live streams and encouraging productivity.
Use computer vision to track gym workouts, suggest good form, suggest diet based on exercise and track progress
Just get skilled, gain money somehow, and then you can get into companies that you think are the next big thing, or buy businesses. You don't NEED to create it. If you have conviction that your idea is amazing and nothing like that exists, you will need to create a company, but first create a mind that can come up with futuristic ideas, and the only way to do it is to get good and become the future.

Find problems in the world, rather than focusing on solutions, your whims, fancies and biases. Look outside yourself.
Different fields where businesses can be opened:
20. Servers and data storage
21. Healthcare industry in India. Healthinsurance domains or health tech
22. Deep learning and deep learning and AI detection
   
   Always be curious and keep looking for business opportunities. Break your mind, wrack your mind, and see and observe people around you. In each and every business there is always an opportunity for disruption. Observe and meditate. The ideas will show themselves.
   
   One major pain point in the software industry is data servers, storage and the absolute dominance of big players in the industry that don't allow your data to be stored in the geographical location you want.
If the next 50 years is going to be AI vs Humans, I am team humans. I will do anything and everything needed to fight ai. Detect AI. Promote human authenticity, and basically do everything needed to empower humans

You cannot will a market to exist

You have to go to the direction future is going, and steer the ship. It doesn't matter whether it is hype, no hype, clandestine, misunderstood, supported. Society has all the different things at once, you just need to find what you can contribute to best

You will never know if an idea is good or not, even when you are executing you will never understand how good it can be. You need to execute, take feedback from the people, and then iterate ruthlessly

Ambivalence is the worst thing, even worse than hate
   

