Master the basics and first principles
Making things happen is the most important quality of a business
Knowing whats important in each business is the key to making good business decisions
Have the mental models that are the most fundamental and do the most work
Speed, flexibility and ingenuity are the most important qualities that an entrepreneur can have
Any skill that helps you create value, market, sell, deliver value or manage finances are going to be helpful in business. Your only choice is any combination of these
Markets that don't exist don't care how smart you are
In business it happens all the time that you throw a party and no one shows up
Hire slow
Build something. Get an MVP out in the market and iterate fast
Do market research before settling on any business. Test out your products fast
Drive to acquire, Drive to bond, drive to learn, drive to defend and drive to feel....Primary motivators of humans. Your business needs to satisfy one of them
Working on the right thing is more important than working hard
Don't be afraid of competition. There is an iron law of the market. Don't think of having a business idea and don't wait for some unique business idea to start a business. Just think of a market to exploit, and analyse the competitors to see what they aren't doing
Don't start a business for the money alone. Focus  on the work and impact
Its all about starting over and over
Either have the business sense of finding a gap in the market and making a place, or have the business sense to identify good companies at nascent stage and then join them. Either of those paths are great for wild success.
Decide a value before agreeing on the price
Never decide the price. Let others decide. Never flinch and let the other person blink first
Indifference is the shield to daily duplicity
Everyone has luck, you just need to create opportunities and then take them
Have immense confidence as to be blinding in yourself. Intelligence, pedigree, all the things are important, but they are not AS important as the ability to make money. You are allowed to have nothing else, but if you have atleast some skills that complement well in the industry and help the companies earn money, you will be rewarded. Being dumb as a brick or not wanting to talk to anyone are not an obstacle.
Constantly break yourself. Break your mind. Destroy yourself everyday and reconstruct yourself everyday. The idea will only come through this process
Your mind won't do anything unless you want it bad and force it to. If you force it to, it can do anything. Even miracles.
I need to specialise in something. I choose machine learning and healthtech with business knowledge

I have gone through what steve jobs went through at the age of 19. I know I have found my passion in life. I WILL DO IT. Focus on the work and pushing your mind to its limit. I KNOW I CAN.
It took him 6 years to become extremely wealthy. I will take 12, but I WILL DO IT

Get good at product thinking, coding, and business acumen so that you can be comparable to someone from an ivy league school in the next 5-6 years

By 32, get as good at technical skills as possible with new technologies + being able to learn any technology. Then By age 35 start atleast 10 companies to learn or 2 medium successful companies and exit

Get addicted to the idea of pushing your mind and body to its limit. Do anything to make it happen

You need to be a fighter. Have the discipline of a military commando, and the risk taking of a adventurer

Master both business knowledge and software knowledge in 40% to 60%. Once you switch to business, switch it to 60 40, but always be good with technical skills, because they are what will separate the truly skilled with just the ones with business acumen. Just simple business acumen won't take you as far as the mix of the two will take you. Business acumen is good, but in today's world, if you are in such a high growth field like Tech, business acumen is just 50% of what is needed. Also, people in
Seldom does an individual enter upon highly creative effort in any field of endeavor before the age of forty. The average man reaches the period of his greatest capacity to create between forty and sixty. These statements are based upon analysis of thousands of men and women who have been carefully observed. They should be encouraging to those who fail to arrive before the age of forty, and to those who become frightened at the approach of "old age," around the forty-year mark. The years between forty and fifty are, as a rule, the most fruitful. Man should approach this age, not with fear and trembling, but with hope and eager anticipation
Either you need business expertise in 1 sector related to IT, or you need to be a great entrepreneur. There is just no other way


Have discipline, be intense, have a learning mindset, be as close to the sun as possible
ML, AI, Data science and HealthTech + Business knowledge and my own startup ideas are my chosen fields

Be technically decent in tech so that you can understand, but focus on being a hyperlearner so that you can learn the ropes of business and entrepreneurship extremely quickly and have the ELO of 2600 in 8 years

Either I will need to join a promising startup by 32 or make my own company

To be a good business man you have to have your fundamentals crystal clear, be creative and always keep learning and keep exploring. Any industry can be conquered by anyone. To make a business doesn't require specialized thinking. Speciality is needed but only later. Figure out the margins and profits you can get in any business, and then learn everything about the industry
Every crisis is an opportunity. Find out the industries , companies or other things going through a crisis. Then judge whether that crisis can be solved and whether all the fundamentals are in place. Once you judge it to be true, aggressively expand. Then venture in related industries and control the whole supply chain.


Plan, stick with your plan, execute ruthlessly.

If you want to successfully become a leader from an engineer, join a startup, and get into a product role that directly forces you to lead others. Once you prove yourself as a leader and make money to the company, you can then transition to leadership positions in established companies

If you want to learn most about businesses and move fast up the ladder, high growth startups and small companies with lots of potential are your best bet
Business, management etc. at its core isn't about specialization. Specialization definitely helps but you can do just as good if not better by finding a job you are passionate about, learning everything possible about it, and then moving up the management ladder. If people are convinced you are better than the people already at the top, you will find a better path. You need to find firms that can teach you a lot and basically have lesser competition
Following your genuine intellectual curiosity is a better foundation for a career than following whatever is making money right now.
Most people who become CEO, CTO or whatever go through a period of intense learning for everything required in a company that makes the most money. If you make the company money and can generate lots of revenue, you will become CEO

Be absolutely ruthless and push your mind, body and soul to the limit. There is no way relentless 50 years of that push will get you nowhere. 

Steps:
1. Getting a good job, getting skilled, and gaining the skill to gain any skill. All while refining your business acumen and observing the mistakes small businesses and failures make
2. Getting your hands into any business you can and adjusting to make a good profit from it.
3. Iterate as much as needed. Then try and find an idea that will make great money and will be scalable. Do R&D if needed, make a MVP and network. This can take anywhere from 2-5 years.
4. Start the business. Do anything needed but try and have a job on the side as well. If the business can give you the same amount of money you got in your job, then quit.
The key is to do the things you are interested in technically, get good at ANY 1 thing. And have a T shaped learning where you get to the core of the onion from any one direction, while learning all about the surface as much as possible. Once you have that, get into ANY field, and try and make money from it by identifying vulnerable markets, or the direction the world is heading. Have the business such that it can be nimble, make money and be bootstrapped and/or get money from sources that don't dilute your vision for the company. Then you make your place in that company, and then once you have the power, you can diversify and get into other businesses, by vertical integration, or investing and getting to the board of directors level, so that you can influence decisions, and then have the power to actually get into high investment industries to shape the future of tech or the world at large. This is the plan, now I need to get ahead in this plan as much as possible in the next 50 years 

You don't need a major idea to succeed. First of all you need to become capable enough so that you can be at the top of most tech businesses, and if you need some specialization you can afford it or get close in 1-2 years. 

Get good at AI+Cloud Engineering from a technical standpoint.

Keep self reflecting. Keep course correcting if something isn't working, but also keep learning and keep improving so that you can find the core principles you need to master and believe in so that you can do something based on them. A company is based on a very few amount of unchangeable truths, and if those truths are where the world is going, or is missing in the world, your company will succeed. That is all you need to believe in, and align the company to be in the direction of those truths

Believe in the future, believe in yourself. Invest in yourself. Align everyone as best as possible. Keep moving, keep executing

Then you can buy a company, make a company, or go to the top of an existing company. All three are viable ways to do it.

Don't repeat the mistakes done by others. Think long term

Don't accept things for how they are. Any industry can be opened up by disruption. Even age old industries can be disrupted by a single human. Never accept anything as it is. Keep looking for ideas. Train your brain to find business and force it to do so

Don't focus on the idea as much as the execution. Become an excellent executor, and the idea will present itself. Or if it doesn't, just steal from someone else, and execute better,

Focus on any fundamental constraints of an industry. Learn what is needed, hire experts or find experts for other tasks, and then execute ruthlessly.

Focus on industries where the players are complacent, or where it is becoming rigid and ripe for change

Do everything business related. The goal of business is NOT to make money, it is to train your mind on first principles, and basics and develop your acumen so that you can succeed in almost ANY business. Any business can be used to train that, but don't think you will become rich just by going into it, just focus on training yourself and becoming better.


Do something, and then look at yourself from outside and identify what your elo is. Once it crosses 2000, only then try and scale anything. Also have a few quality people around you that can guide you if needed

Decide what you need to do. Throw yourself at the deep end and learn quickly. Learn adaptability, resilience and hyperlearning mindset. Keep thinking about ways to make money. Read cutting edge books in psychology, sociology, sciences, research papers, everything you can in order to understand where the world is heading, and ruthlessly do the things that are going to make money. It is a developable skill, and you need to get good at gaining new skills as well as developing this core skill.

Read research papers everyday, see where the society is heading, and keep thinking about what we can do to make the future a reality and make a company from that

Atleast for the next 40 years, focus on learning and improving yourself. Don't focus on money. The idea should be to learn as much as possible about business, sales, marketing, product, customer, different domains, technology, etc. When you are capable, you can even become a billionaire with a common idea, if you are incapable, even the most money making idea won't make you a millionaire.


Come up with a 100 business ideas every month. Build projects and analyse those ideas. Find customers, niches,etc



You cannot do it alone. First get into a confident position so that I can go out and meet people and 
be of actual use instead of dreaming about products, put yourself in a leadership position. Learn and  
keep improving like crazy. It is doable, but you have to start everything parallely in the next 2 years.
Only then I will be in a position by age 32 to start a company, and by age 35-36 to learn from all failures 
to actually start a successful company. Many people have done it in very less time, and many people have done 
it with much lesser intensity and curiosity. I CAN and I WILL DO IT. Just focus on the work instead of 
getting distracted by anything else. Trust the process.

Learn how to build, and learn how to sell. If you can do both you will be unstoppable 
Specific knowledge will be the one that allows you to build those skills and productize yourself. It is 
built by curiosity and the fields that genuinely interest you, not something hot and booming rn.

Become the best at the world at what you do. Keep redefining what you do until its true. Gain specific 
knowledge. This cannot be taught but can be learned.
Applied scientists and ones with people skills are the most powerful people in the world. Have any 
percentage of knowledge of both things.
Praise specifically Criticise generally
Avoid incorrect judgements more than thinking of correct judgements.
Learn Computers, Microeconomics, Game Theory, Persuasion, 

If you want it done, then go, if not then send.
The whole work should be focused on creating that one moment in your life within 10 years that can change everything.

If you are evenly split for a difficult decision, take the path more painful in the short term.
Gather mental models and intuition. Once that reaches a point, things will blow up.
Preparation+Paitience+Discipline+Objectivity

Develop an investor mindset to identifiy new opportunities, and then develop the execution mindset 
to execute relentlessly on those opportunities.
Reduce situations to their most basic fundamentals.
Mimicking the herd invites regression to the mean.
The only way to win is to work work work work work and hope to have a few insights
More important than the will to win is the will to prepare.
It is better to remember the obvious than to grasp the esoteric
Think forwards and backwards
Be alert for the arrival of luck
Don't overlook the obvious while diving in minutiae
A small leak can sink a great ship

Master the obvious and easily learned principles of business
Avoid stupidity instead of chasing intelligence 
Even if you are a focused tortoise you can get very rich in 50 years. The idea is to be a focused hare.
If you say no 90% of the time you won't be missing out on much
You should have 80-100 business models to think about how the world works and how business works

Take top ideas from each discipline and really REALLY focus and learn from them

Avoid envy, self pity and SLOP.

Be technical enough so that it doesn't hold you back, but focus on learning WHAT to learn and then 
have the ability to learn it quickly
Pay attention to the micro to get the macro

The mind overweighs the factors easily available to it





