Cracking the PM interview:

PM defines success and makes decisions for the direction of the product. However
a PM doesn't have direct authority over their team

A PM sits at the intersection of technology business and design. 
Research & Planning-> Design-> Implement and Test-> Release

Some companies split the role for 2 people TPM and PM 
If a product is technically demanding, this split is done
The TPM focuses on Design and implement and test, while the PM 
is focused on research and planning and release.

A new idea may come from:
customer request 
competitive analysis 
new technology 
user research 
sales or marketing teams 
brainstorming 
big vision for the project 

So a PM fields those ideas, gathers funds, takes the responsibility and gathers the team 
to execute those ideas 

Now for each company the methodology is different. But its the PMs job to have the required people 
be on board with the idea 

PM needs to have the answer of : Why are we working on this? 

OKRs -> Objectives and Key results 

Product design is about defining the features and functionality of the product 
PMs role in product design varies substantially between products, teams and companies 

Dogfooding-> Using your own products yourself internally 

Each PM will have a launch checklist based on how much they want to collaborate with management,
finance teams, legal teams, etc

They make sure that the customer service team is prepared, operations team is prepared, etc.

Being a PM on a mature product is very different from being a PM on a new product 
Shipped software like windows or apps, have a longer timeline as you cannot immediately push updates 
like in a website

Most online software teams run A/B tests. In this a new feature is released to a percentage of users.
Product knowledge, and having the intuition for good vs bad products is very essential for product managers 

Good PMs don't just serve as passive conduit for other people's opinions.

In any room, the PM needs to represent the opinions of all the people who are not in the room 

PMs don't tell the date, the engineers tell the date 
Not trusting the engineer's estimates and promising other teams that the work will be done 
sooner than what the engineers estimate is the fastest way to ruin your relationship with the team 

PMs don't have as much authority over the team, they are working with the team, the team doesn't work for them 

When you are a PM, your job is anything that is not being covered by other people

If you let the work slip by, no one will make sure it gets caught

Some budgeting and resource management work that product managers do:
1. Clarify goals and gather satisfaction metrics
2. Determine the people and skills needed to complete the project
3. Setup project management tools, plans and processes
4. Analyze data to identify opportunities
5. Identify and implement changes to improve efficiency
6. Manage changes that come in from the customer
7. Find ways to keep the project on track even when things go wrong

Amazon doesn't accept product managers who are not MBAs. Apple has EPMs or Engineering Product Managers.
Facebook requires all product managers to be technical. It has a substantial number of PMs who
were founders of acquired companies, as well as few ex google PMs 

Some google PMs have MBAs but google puts more emphasis on masters and phds.

Microsoft prefers a technical background even though it doesn't have to be CS.

How a company hires PMs and focuses on new products is dependent on its startup roots and the philosophy 
set by the founders. Jeff Bezos was an MBA so he prefers MBAs, Apple had both Jobs and Woz so they prefer EPMs, 
Mark was technical so PMs need to be technical, Larry and Sergey were Phds so the PMs are Phds.

MBAs or +4 years of experience can get into product roles at google.

Google strongly values analytical skills in its PMs. Data analytics becomes a huge part of a PMs job at google.


In microsoft, the PM has a very central role and MSFT has one of the highest PM to developer ratios 

People who look at things from multiple perspectives are valued as PMs
PM at microsoft begins by writing a one page spec for the basic requirements and use cases 

After review they expand it to a detailed spec
Apple has software and hardware EPMs 


Facebook looks for highly technical and entrepreneurial PMs 
Facebook has a do it yourself culture
When facebook acquihires, they look for small teams preferably less than 10 with high impact.



Amazon Leadership principles:
0. Make data driven decisions
1.Customer obsession
2. Ownership
3. Invent and simplify
4. Leaders are right a lot. They always question their closely held beliefs.
5. Learn and be curious. Most people at a certain point find it too threatening or too difficult to keep learning. That shouldn't be you. You have to have a plan of how you are going to change, and then make that change.
6.  Hire and develop the best. Who you hire is one of the most important decisions we can make. Recognise what a person is good at, and also identify where they need to grow
7. Insist on the highest standards
8. Think Big. Thinking small is a self fulfilling prophecy. Keep thinking big.
9. Always have a bias for action. Speed matters in business, many decisions and actions are reversible. Take calculated risks. Speed is not preordained. Its a leadership and culture decision. The overwhelming majority of decisions we make are one way door decisions. Have the right mindset and right urgency to take decisions.
10. Be frugal. Constraints breed resourcefulness and invention. The very best businesses do more with less. Everything you save on, you can give back to customers with low prices and more productive things.
11. Earn trust of the people. Leaders listen attentively, speak candidly and treat others respectfully. They are vocally self critical even when doing so is awkward or embarassing. Leaders don't believe that their or their own team's body odor smells like perfume. They benchmark themselves and their teams against the best. 
12. Dive deep. Leaders operate at all levels, stay connected to the details, audit frequently and are skeptical when metrics and annecdotes differ. No task is beneath them. Details of an idea matters the most. THat is what the customers and people actually see. It is hard to fake the details in a narrative. Follow the anecdotes and inspect the details.
13. Have a backbone. Disagree and commit. Leaders are obligated to respectfully challenge decisions when they disagree.They do not compromise for the sake of social cohesion. Once a decision is made, the commit whole heartedly.Don't compromise to make each other feel better, the answer should be about truth.
14. Leaders focus on the key inputs for their businesses and deliver them with the right quality and in a timely fashion. Despite setbacks, they rise to the occasion and never settle. Don't try to actively manage the outputs. Focus on the inputs. Launch or delivery is not the finish line, its the starting line.
15. Strive to be the earth's best employer.
16. Leaders create more than they consume, and always leave things better than they found them.


Amazon is very data driven, so PMs need to have very strong analytical skills.

Tim cook's leadership principles focus on people, strategy and execution.

PMs at yahoo generally have a CS degree.

In twitter, many TPMs come from varied backgrounds like Management, consulting, engineering, or Tech lead and tech architect



































































































































When painters painted the horses running in a wrong way, everyone thought of it as correct. But when cameras were invented and painters started painting it in the correct manner, everyone complained that it didn't look right.

Children frequently paint stars in a star shape even though it doesn't look like that at all.

In a painting people insist that a sky is blue and the grass is green are no different from these children.

If we follow things and learn from them, even a glance out of our own window can become a thrilling adventure

Artists only worry about whether they got it "right".

The fact that we cannot argue about matters of taste is correct, but that conceals the fact that taste can be developed.

The fact that one cannot question matters of taste, doesn't mean that one cannot discuss them

The great masters have given their all, sweated their blood over them, and the least they have is the right to ask us to try and understand what they wanted to do

The mind should not be cluttered by biases, high sounding words or ready made phrases


The mask doesn't reveal the true face of a man, but the mask only reveals that aspect which the mask is.

It is not the standards of craftsmanship that are different from us but the ideas

The story of art is not a story in technical proficiency but in the story of ideas


