1. Virth-> Net worth of each human
2. Rent a friend 
3. Rate->Rate any person in your contacts out of 10, give anonymous reviews.
4. Homeopathy app
5. Productivity tracker and "worth measurer" for businesses
6. Nuclear power companies in India
7. Anonymize data to access foreign servers without user data going to said servers
8. Specialised AI agents for niche tasks, like real estate value AI, valuation of a car, etc
9. Making an earbud for telling if something is true or false about what you hear and fact checking someone
10. Distributed/Decentralized file storage for storing data in available computers.
11. Funding like YCombinator for Indian startups
12. Make clothes with advertisements for content creators
13. Shirts with 3d art and that seem like they will come out
14. App for self discovery, and self reflection
15. App to do a good deed and nudge users and gamify good behaviors
16. Crowdfunding personal development
17. Local politician to voter connect
18. Alert govt and local officials for any particular problem
19. Social media app based on location to get posts based on what is happening around us (Locality)
20. Rent actors
21. 

Write detailed ideas for each product as narratives VVIMP




Figure out the core human want, and figure out the core human drive.

Make communities where others keep track of your productivity at any task. 
Community-> For making a community of like minded people focusing on live streams and encouraging productivity.
Use computer vision to track gym workouts, suggest good form, suggest diet based on exercise and track progress
Just get skilled, gain money somehow, and then you can get into companies that you think are the next big thing, or buy businesses. You don't NEED to create it. If you have conviction that your idea is amazing and nothing like that exists, you will need to create a company, but first create a mind that can come up with futuristic ideas, and the only way to do it is to get good and become the future.

Find problems in the world, rather than focusing on solutions, your whims, fancies and biases. Look outside yourself.
Different fields where businesses can be opened:
20. Servers and data storage
21. Healthcare industry in India. Healthinsurance domains or health tech
22. Deep learning and deep learning and AI detection
   
   Always be curious and keep looking for business opportunities. Break your mind, wrack your mind, and see and observe people around you. In each and every business there is always an opportunity for disruption. Observe and meditate. The ideas will show themselves.
   
   One major pain point in the software industry is data servers, storage and the absolute dominance of big players in the industry that don't allow your data to be stored in the geographical location you want.
If the next 50 years is going to be AI vs Humans, I am team humans. I will do anything and everything needed to fight ai. Detect AI. Promote human authenticity, and basically do everything needed to empower humans

You cannot will a market to exist

You have to go to the direction future is going, and steer the ship. It doesn't matter whether it is hype, no hype, clandestine, misunderstood, supported. Society has all the different things at once, you just need to find what you can contribute to best

You will never know if an idea is good or not, even when you are executing you will never understand how good it can be. You need to execute, take feedback from the people, and then iterate ruthlessly

Ambivalence is the worst thing, even worse than hate
   

