Characteristics:
1. Extreme discipline
2. Extremely curious
3. Extreme work ethic
4. Working on timer and pushing your mind to the extreme
5. Logical and Analytical thinking
6. Being acutely aware of current affairs, arts (modern and old), philosophies and psychology of people
7. Being good at guitar and having self expression in music
8. Focused on healthy eating, healthy living
9. Deviancy
10. Fashion and Looking good all the time. Experimenting with different looks constantly
11. Weightlifting and being in shape
Motivation: I want to push my mind to become one with Krishna and the absolute truth. It is all rooted in hindu culture, hindu beliefs and extreme arjuna like discipline. I want to embody all the characteristics that would make my mother proud and use it to fuel my self growth. I will constantly experiment with new things and figure things out as I go.

Character bio:
I am in a deep state of flow, satisfaction and focus all the time.
I always speak with authority, clarity and each word is chosen carefully.
I am in athletic shape.
I am good at music and guitar
I care deeply about my close ones, and will go to any lengths to protect them.
I am very choosy about who I consider family and who stranger
I am always thinking about innovation, disruption and pushing the boundaries of self.
I am always calm and collected.
I am always experimenting with and thinking about new aspects of flow.
My priority is always, soul, mind and body.
I am extremely hygenic and always put together
I have a good sense of humor but only show it to people I love and care about
I always eat healthy and never put a single unhealthy morsel in my mouth.
I don't let anything affect me from reaching my daily goal
I have an almost superhuman dedication to pushing my limits. I don't stop at any external or internal obstacle and have full focus each second of my life
I always think of the brain and body in a scientific manner, and doing whatever it takes to release the mixture of chemicals I want and cause the firing of neurons in a specific manner.
I work for others only when I am tired. I work on myself when I am not. I practice guitar as much as possible during my work for others as well.


How does my character work?
He always works in time chunks, whatever time slot of the choosing, he fully focuses on the task and gets into flow as quickly as possible.
When concentrating, he closes his eyes if in deep thought or else concentrates properly, takes notes whenever needed while always carrying a small notebook with him and is decisive in his work.
He doesn't let anything stop him from reaching his goals. Any obstacles whether external or internal are worthless to him. He is dangerously dedicated and people will be terrified watching him work long hours and being extremely productive. People will be terrified by his ability to be calm and always focused without thinking of anything else.
He never pauses his timer even if he is dying 

How does my character rest?
He engages in active rest. Whenever he is walking, eating, playing guitar, and doing anything apart from work, he is in a meditative state of rest.

How does my character talk?
Talks with decisiveness, using few words when needed. Concise and philosophical, seamlessly integrating philosophy into logical realms, Using little focused hand movements, and never doing unnecessary things with hand, feet, or any other body part. 
He speaks with clarity and precision, often pausing before responding to ensure that every word is deliberate and impactful. When others speak, he listens intently, giving the impression that each word spoken is valuable.-> Work
With humor, light heartedness, care and compassion when talking with the people I love, always trying to make them laugh and laughing with them -> Personal

How does my character walk and stand?
Focused, looks like he is floating on the clouds, with smooth movements and as little arm swings. Standing tall, with grace and elegance like a king

How does my character dress?
Casual-> Shorts in summer, long sleeves in winter, with clean comfortable clothes that always look good even when I am sleeping
Formal-> Suits and tailored clothing. High fashion and always in proper attire when working in business. For programming, always in clean clothes, normal chinos /comfortable pants and tshirt tailored.
Medium length hair , always clean and well trimmed nails. Rimless glasses (have atleast 10 pairs), Half rim or full rim glasses in casual or semi formal settings. Favorite colors, Grey, Black, Purple, Navy blue.

How does my character get angry/agitated/etc?
When riled up, my character becomes even more focused, and deals with things decisively. Very situation dependent but he doesn't let other people control his emotions and aims to always take power in such situations rather than giving it away.

How does my character deal with loss?
If lost and hopeless, he calms himself down by playing guitar. Then after each 2 hour chunk, focuses again and repeats the same thing while seamlessly shifting focus to guitar in times of need and then using the strength to work again.

How does my character deal with women in informal setting?
Always with respect, kindness with a hint of not taking shit from anybody and indirect references to romance if I am interested. Always the criteria is very high and will never be interested in 99% of women I meet, but always have a good relationship and never let them think of you as creep or have any sort of negative opinion about you. Be nice, courteous but decisive and not taking insult or any sort of disrespect.
He carries an air of respect and protection. He subtly communicates his boundaries without arrogance, always leaving space for autonomy and never pressing for anything. His decisiveness ensures that his attention feels like a gift rather than a demand.

How does my character deal with men in informal setting?
With focused work, always asking them about work and interested in technicalities. Being curious and passionate about your work and prioritising professional connection. Never sharing any vulnerability and never taking shit. Finding creative ways to insult if insulted, and finding creative ways to subtly gain soft power.

How does my character deal with sexual urges?
When alone, he deals them after the day's work is done, in the half hour before sleeping. When with a partner, he always performs his best whenever the partner gives a hint, and never forces anything. He always listens to his partner and is focused on maximising their pleasure.

How does my character deal with emergency situations?
He is always calm and has ice water flowing through his veins. He is always focused, and focuses on finding the best solution instead of getting riled up due to the emergency. He is focused on the long term goal and knows how its all a game and emergencies, loss or even devastation doesn't mean anything as long as you are in flow. Takes deep breaths and gets to work.

How does my character deal with sleep and what does the typical day look like?
He starts his day at 5:00 AM, works on his body for 30 mins-45 mins and then gets to work by working in chunks and practicing guitar in free time, switching up the times if needed but keeping 4+ hour on guitar and 8+ hours on work. He sleeps at 10:30-11 pm or when tired whichever is later.


Every thing I do in life should have a purpose towards this specific goal. No effort should be in vain.

Inculcate into your intuition so much that you become one with this philosophy. Anything you can say or do won't do justice as the whole will become more than the sum of parts after a particular point. The main aim is to get to that level.
Ignore your feelings, your thoughts and prejudices about the character. BECOME THE CHARACTER.
Once you start doing it and once it reaches the point where the character and the work takes over, that is when it will become second nature. Till then you will always be uncomfortable.

The early phases of hardwork and focus are going to feel like agitation, stress and confusion
 Norepinephrine and Adrenaline
 Brain also needs to warm up and hone in on which circuits need to be active
 Dopamine system is dependent on your philosophy of life
 Dopamine puts us on the right path
 Dopamine is released when you think and believe yourself that you are on the right path
 When Norepinephrine becomes high, you feel like quitting
 When dopamine is released, it pushes the norepinephrine down
  When dopamine is released, it tightens the focus on that activity
  Once you like doing something even you aren't good at it, you will get good at it in 10 years
  View your agitation as excitement.
  You have the circuits in your mind, and you can export it to any behavior you want


If you are having extreme difficulty doing anything, drink lots of water, eat a full stomach and sleep. It will do wonders in reinvigorating you.

WHen my character does anything "out of character". He abuses himself in private, curses, slaps and tortures himself by whatever means necessary to never repeat the same mistake again



  
  