I want to solve hard problems and become domain thinker+ engineer and the eagle eyed view on things, 
and solve systems level ambiguous problems that make huge revenue. Don't just solve great technical problems, 
position yourself as the great technical person who can execute ambiguous things.

Immediate plan:

Get to Engineering Lead position in Precision within 3 years. Also aim to clear interview of google/FAANG senior sde
or ATLEAST swe III, preferably in US healthcare or similar complex field. Then switch for 2-3 years for Land+Home money, and then come back for WFH job in US healthcare.

Get AS GOOD AS POSSIBLE in DSA, CP and Mathematics 
Do guitar everyday and set ambitious goals and achieve them 
Dive deep into your domain at work and become domain expert. 
Complete your book list.
Focus on fitness everyday. 
In 4 years be AT PAR with an MIT undergrad in execution, depth, work intensity, work output and intelligence.
Post on youtube. I NEED a public brand and for a CEO that is invaluable. Once you have your own computer/laptop, start 
recording USACO explanations and posting on youtube. Always refine your videos and edit things for reach. And do live streams 
as well. But keep it as YOUR NAME, and your brand. Slowly also post guitar videos and book reviews and just opinions.

Become a generalist in engineering and do everything that engineers understand but 
a staff engineer or senior one MAY IMPROVE and see it as decent but inefficient

And develop domain knowledge so that staff engineer or senior sdes have no 
idea what I am doing with business and have no interest in it

Skills needed at work(with ELO):

VERY Deep domain knowledge in US healthcare & risk systems 1000

Decently Strong technical + system design foundation 1100

VERY Strong DSA and Codeforces rating. Good at Math. 1360 

Eagle-eye systems thinking + ambiguity handling 40

Communication and influence skills 800

Client exposure to understand incentives 0


vxd7tw9 hvt19982 usaco.training 
gypsycrusader26 zxcasdQWE!@221 usaco.org 
GypsyCrusader cses.fi zxcasdQWE!@221
hvt1998@gmail.com zxcasdQWE!@221
