Goals of the only things that matter:

Keep making plans for becoming a billionaire in 7 years, but do it upto 7 times in your life. Have urgency 
in short term but hope for long term. 50 years is just a buffer, most achievements or all learnings should 
happen in min 15 maximum 30. Think of it like, 10 years to 50 mill, 10 more years for 200 mill and 10 more years for 1 bill


1. Get good at Competitive programming and mathematics with abstract thinking. Get a good enough job and into 
google/microsoft if possible, but not so that it hampers your long term growth by switching domains.
Stay in Healthcare analytics and develop deep expertise in ambiguous problems. Do work that moves money 
and solves ambiguous problems.
-------Cross 10k hours of deep work 
2. Become codeforces grandmaster and keep doing CF and CP as long as you are writing code atleast once in 6 months. 
Try and get to LGM. Become good at IMO level problems, enough to crack INMO or IMO. 
3. Get good at guitar and electric guitar well enough to play mr crowley, wmggw and playing god flawlessly 
and learn most songs in 1 week or less. Do this in 3 years. Study music theory from sheet music from 16-19th century for all keys and 
keep learning that as well as improvisation and refinement of those ideas whole life. Upload guitar covers 
of classical/baroque music using electric after 3-4 years and mr crowley, playing god etc flawless covers on youtube.
Perform as well as become as close as possible to a decent guitarist.
-------Cross 20k hours of deep work
4. Have multiple ideas for great companies and implement. Youtube will be a permanent presence 
and background vehicle. Use it to develop personality. Become CEO of multiple companies. Join startups 
and contribute atleast a single big feature that makes startup >100 million dollars. 5-10 years 
Have problem solving skills so that you can get into HFT or wall street level abstraction. Get good at math 
and code. Have skills to do the most cutting edge thing in the world in jobs and abstract thinking.
5. After 3-4 failures of companies or more maximum 20, find your dream company and ultimate company that totally clicks with your life goal
6. Become a millionaire/Learn everything that a millionaire knows. In 10 years.
Get so good academically and professionally that you can get an MS from Stanford/MIT. 
Get it ONLY if you want to get into a cutting edge field and have ideas that are working
but you aren't getting much funding and networking. If you have ideas of other companies, or if you ARE able to get funding, 
even minimally, then DONT DO IT.
-------Cross 50 k hours of deep work
7. Become a multimillionaire/Learn everything that a multimillionaire knows. 15-20 years
8. Do something that has never been done before in the world. 25 years.
-------Cross 70k hours of deep work 
9. Do multiple things that have never been done before and 1 groundbreaking thing in your field. = 30-35 years
10. Become a billionaire / Learn everything that a billionaire knows. 40 years
-------Cross 120k hours of deep work/deep existence in your lifetime
11. Reach the CONVERGENCE POINT. 50 years.
-------Cross 150k hours of deep existence 
12. Target multibillionaire >50 bill in networth in lifetime. By the speed and discipline with which I am working = 50 years
and targeting to work, if I pull it off this should be expected.
-------Cross 200k hours of deep existence
13. Live till 100 years with a productive existence till 90.

Even with 50 years worth of effort. There is very slim chance of me reaching the convergence point, 
but in order to even have a shot, there needs to be zero wasted movement in those 50 years.