3/6 - 14/6
THEME of the week: 
New amazing work in company, Great Diet and exercise, Decent USACO, Decent guitar, subpar book reading.

0. Return laptop 5th June DONE. Go to dental hospital.
(went to dakshineshwar instead. Will do next week) DONE
1. Have diet of >60 g protein a day. Facing constipation, will  DONE
keep learning and increase slowly. Don't overrely on protein shakes. Follow the diet as close as possible. 
2. Walk 800 minutes total. Jog slightly intense (140-160 BPM) 100 minutes
3. Target weight 48.6-50.6 kg (50.65 max got in 7/6/2026. Maybe can try around 50.4 by next week)
4. USACO 6 sums. 7-11 daily. USACO training 4 sums  
5. Track calories everyday. Don't exceed more than 1700 daily. Have most calories in lunch and dinner. Have light breakfast. 
6. Weights 30 sets every alternate day or 15 daily. Do it slowly over 1 hour-1.5 hours. Total >100
7. Guitar >15 hours. 
8. Have excellent sleep. If quality degrades focus on diet and reducing walks. 
9. Paradise lost is very hard and not really worth to read just to check a box. Start with odyssey and continue ulysses and 
manga. Try and read till book 5 of odyssey.
10. Understand every process in PrecisionAQ. Go through Access Genius documentation and document. Bond with colleagues as best 
as possible and be a great new joinee and have an excellent first week. Learn as much as possible and work for 3-4 focus sessions 
per day (total 45 hours from 8 to 14).
11. Have good hygiene, good routine and adhere to all the skincare perfectly. Relax around 1 hour before bed to ensure great sleep.
12. Relax on 14th and 6th evening. After that write everything down and judge whetjher you accomplished all goals or not. Don't keep checking 
everyday.Also tkae average of weights across all days and see the trend, it should fall in the range mentioned.
13. Fix sleep hygiene, only sleep anytime between 9pm to 6 AM. And track everything.


3
Breakfast-800 Lunch-500+400 Dinner- 300
Protein: 50g
Wokeup a bit early. Sleep is getting fragmented because of idiotic behavior from sisters. Need to 
correct that ASAP. I will again have to fight with them for a basic right of quiet during sleep and peace.
Recovery needs to be proper. I need to sleep whenever I can get time.
I will start to eat more and not lose more than 0.8 kg per week, or else it will increase risk of hair fall and 
stress overall. Also I will do more exercise and more walking so that I can build muscle mass as well.
Slept a bit. Have good quality sleep so that stress is low and chances of hair loss are minimal.
Eating a bit more today to see if sleep is fine, and reduce a bit of long term stress for correcting hairfall. Will 
do again from tomorrow and track everything and have around 1500 calories in and 500 calories out per day and increase or 
decrease bit by bit to check the weight reduction, muscle loss and other things.

CP/USACO: Sessions->0 Progress -> NA
Book: Sessions-> 1 Progress ->1/2 of book 3
Guitar: Sessions->0 Progress ->NA
Exercise: Sessions-> Progress -> 8 sets Walk 50 mins
Work: Sessions-> 3 Progress ->Shit work. Shit life. I don't know why i get trapped in this. But it will be over soon.



4

Breakfast- Lunch-700 Dinner-650  Protein-60
Sleep was a bit less. 6.5 hours, will improve it tomorrow by sleeping a bit earlier today.
Slept a 1.5 hours and now sleep is fine. but morning rhythm got ruined, resulting which I got stuck int eh USACO 
problem. Its ok, will do exercise, guitar, and book and diet now. And then will see how to fix USACO. USACO 
is veryhard to get right, but I will go hard in morning and then it will be great. Today was a bit different because got 
pulled ni the work task today morning which was unnecessary. Need to protect sleep at night and not see anything apart from 
USACO before 10 PM to protect that time. If I do that, it will be very easy to do. Or else it will suffer.
CP/USACO: Sessions-> 1 Progress ->stuck in a flood fill question. Can work harder but still struggled 
because of shit sleep yesterday.
Book: Sessions->1/2 Progress -> Book 3.4 rn
Guitar: Sessions-> 30mins Progress ->standchen practice
Exercise: Sessions-> 1/2Progress -> 12 sets 40 mins walk
Work: Sessions->1 Progress -> Again pulled into firefights in the morning.
Weight: 51.00


5

Breakfast-400 Lunch-1000 Dinner-150  Protein-10. fix slight constipation.

CP/USACO: Sessions->1 Progress -> 1 usaco training done.
Book: Sessions->1  Progress -> done book 3
Guitar: Session 0.75(1hr) session Progress -> Repetition. Tired.
Exercise: Sessions->1/2 Progress -> 60 mins walk. fix sleep.
Work: Sessions-> 0 Progress -> NA
Sleep: 4.5 hrs(nap 30 mins 10-10:30. stop slowly)
Weight: 51.00
Returned laptop.



6

Breakfast-250 Lunch-500 Dinner- 500 Protein-40

CP/USACO: Sessions->30 mins Progress -> 1 ut done.
Book: Sessions-> 1/2 Progress ->book 4.2
Guitar: Sessions-> 0Progress ->tired
Exercise: Sessions-> 10 mins Progress ->6 set+ walk 30 min
Work: Sessions->1 Progress -> laptop setup.
Sleep: 7 . "Relaxed". Train restraint ASAP.

7
Breakfast-10 Lunch-1000(500+500 approx) Dinner-500  Protein-20
bad diet, feeling like shit. Need to stop failing, and need to plan indulgences. However it 
was once a week so its "fine" long term. Need to think of long term. Its still fine. My weight is on target.
Just the feeling I need to control because I felt like shit.
Maintainance or maybe slightly above that today. Will do normally and see what happens. My estimate 
is the diet should still be on track.
CP/USACO: Sessions-> 1 Progress -> stuck in usaco training. need deep focus.
Book: Sessions->0 Progress -> NA
Guitar: Sessions->30 mins Progress -> just repetition.
Exercise: Sessions-> Progress -> walk 1.5 hr 16 sets
Work: Sessions->1 Progress -> setup.
Sleep: 8 hrs. Train total restraint. Still remaining.
Weight: 50.65

8
Breakfast- 400 Lunch- 800 Dinner-400  Protein-40 failed protein because didn't get to eat chicken. maybe tomrow. a bit more as cake and others were left. it shouldn't mess up that much

CP/USACO: Sessions->1 Progress ->good progress. still stuck. will do some new company work today 
as its important day. maybe tomorrow will try and do 2 if possible, or atleast 1.
Book: Sessions-> Progress ->
Guitar: Sessions-> 0Progress ->0
Exercise: Sessions->0 Progress ->0 Need to do both guitar and exercise. Now its a bit clear the work 
I need to do, so maybe will be able to make good progress within friday.
Work: Sessions->8 Progress -> setup and induction. will have majorly this today.
Sleep:7 hrs. fine.


9
Breakfast-220 Lunch-450 Dinner-600  Protein- 55

CP/USACO: Sessions->1 Progress ->still stuck. will try brute force
Book: Sessions->0 Progress ->0
Guitar: Sessions-> 0Progress ->0
Exercise: Sessions-> Progress ->40 mins walk. Weights will do tomorrow, as today still working a good amount
Work: Sessions-> 6 Progress ->HR tasks and learnings with corey
Sleep: 7 hrs



10
Breakfast-300 Lunch-500 Dinner-600  Protein-50

CP/USACO: Sessions-> 1 Progress -> 1 done ut
Book: Sessions-> 1 Progress -> manga
Guitar: Sessions->1/2 Progress ->repetition. mornign session is great. will keep that. also will target much more in weekends
Exercise: Sessions-> 0 Progress ->0 fix this
Work: Sessions->5 Progress -> learning, kt sessions,etc
Sleep:5+1. wired. fix cycle by building debt. slept a bit @4-5
weight: 51.00



11
Breakfast-200 Lunch-500 Dinner-800  Protein-40

CP/USACO: Sessions->1 Progress ->usaco.training is down. did some basic things. bad. need to be able to do usaco.guide as well
Book: Sessions->0 Progress ->0
Guitar: Sessions-> Progress -> didnt' do morning session. need to find way. also will need to sit with guitar and book 
whenever i get a chance. Now I need to find a way to do everything in a day. Its hard but possible. Practice makes perfect.
Exercise: Sessions->0 Progress ->0(feeling sick, need to do this from tomorrow)
Work: Sessions->6 Progress -> learning, notes and KTs
Sleep:6.5+1 fragmented. fix this. wont sleep in day to build debt(slept a bit, sick). Restraint missing. Let them choose



12
Breakfast-500 Lunch-400 Dinner-  Protein-

CP/USACO: Sessions->1 Progress -> stuck in 1 sum
Book: Sessions-> Progress ->
Guitar: Sessions-> Progress ->
Exercise: Sessions-> Progress ->
Work: Sessions-> 5 Progress -> kt and documentation
Sleep:6.5. Have greater duration.




13
Breakfast- Lunch- Dinner-  Protein-

CP/USACO: Sessions-> Progress ->
Book: Sessions-> Progress ->
Guitar: Sessions-> Progress ->
Exercise: Sessions-> Progress ->
Work: Sessions-> Progress ->
Sleep:




14
Breakfast- Lunch- Dinner-  Protein-

CP/USACO: Sessions-> Progress ->
Book: Sessions-> Progress ->
Guitar: Sessions-> Progress ->
Exercise: Sessions-> Progress ->
Work: Sessions-> Progress ->
Sleep:

































30/5 - 7/6

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

CHANGING Diet and weekly plan for this week. This week was fine, just abit more focus when to diet and body 
since I was getting veryv ery frustrated. Now the plan is clear, I just need to execute it well.

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

1. USACO training 7-11 everyday YES 
2. USACO silver 6+ sums  NA 
3. USACO training 3+ sums NA 
4. Exercise 100 sets 60 till now. Reduced it a bit so that it doesn't cause injuries and losing weight doesn't become a full time job.
5. Perfect diet <1500  calorie. Good protein(>50g daily). Fruits and nuts and chia seed everyday
6. Target Weight 49 - 51  curr- fluctuating a lot  around 50.7- 52.2. Need to reduce a lot in this week and see the 
maximum I can do. The next 2 weeks I need to do INTENSE DIET and decrease 1 kg per week.
7. Complete till book 4 of paradise lost. Also continue manga and ulysses.
8. Guitar 15 hours total. 3-4 hours a day  1 Reduced a bit to increase it to 20 slowly.
9. Finish standchen >90%
10. Perfect coffee routine as well. Have everyday, but pace it well to avoid hit and future gastritis. DONE
11. Have perfect day atleast 5 days. 2-3 USACO, 2-3 guitar, 3+ work bandwidth (and if not work, do system design 
to train work like routine), Book 1-2, skincare before sleeping and good sleep. This is perfect routine.
12. Give back laptop on 5th June.
13. Setup new laptop for company work and Github link of this project. DONE
14. Go to dental hospital and get teeth checked if possible.NOT NEEDED
15. Walk 20 hours total 5
16. Make papa serve ALL my food to give him an estimate of how much I am eating. DONE

30
Breakfast- 800 Lunch- 1000 Dinner- 600
goal: 2-3 usaco, 2+ guitar, exercise 25+ sets, book 1 FAILURE OF A DAY
CP/USACO: Sessions-> 2 sessions but still stuck in https://codeforces.com/contest/1365/problem/D Progress -> stuck
Book: Sessions-> 1 Progress -> Completed book 1 and 2
Guitar: Sessions-> 0 Progress -> 0
Exercise: Sessions->1 Progress ->8 sets
Work: Sessions-> NA because work is done Progress -> NA

For some days diet is a bit awry. Will eat very less from now and see. I got a bit complacent because the weight had reduced 
less than my target. But time to reduce more and quickly now.
Wokeup on time. Relaxed as well at night so no need to do that at 7th and removed the task from the weekly one.
Can make moka pot coffee now without issues
Also slept during the day. Its fine in weekends but I CANNOT do this more than once or twice a week. 
I won'tdo it for 4-5 days.
Also I am having issues with my routine and goals very much, but I NEED to go into no excuses and work MUCH HARDER.
Or if I dont do it, my goals will go into total waste. I NEED TO LOCK IN. Only if I do 30 years plan will make sense. I CANNOT 
make this a catalog of failures of a common man. THIS PROJECT NEEDS TO BE A TRIUMPH.

Absolute shit diet for last 3-4 days. Need to fix and reduce weight in priority.




31
Breakfast- 100 Lunch-450 Dinner- 400
Walk- -100
Target: 800 calories , 3 USACO, 3 guitar, 1 book, 25+ exercise set (1/2 session) DECENT

CP/USACO: Sessions-> 3 Progress -> Still stuck in the same problem. Need to make cases and think hard.
Came up with one potential way to do it. But still stuck. Its not working

Book: Sessions->1/2 Progress -> book 3
Guitar: Sessions->1/2 Progress ->practiced standchen
Exercise: Sessions->1/2 + 1/3 Progress ->29+30 mins walk
Work: Sessions-> 0 Progress -> NA

I am now doing bit better, but still I HAVE to get perfect days. Its nowhere close even when I try my hardest. I NEED 
to try harder, especially the quality of focus in USACO, work and guitar. I need to improve myself a lot. I also need to
not stress at all, and just take it as what I need to do with a calm mind.
Enemies are sitting in my home, not letting me lose weight. Need to walk 4 hours a day to compensate and eat around 1500-1600 
calories a day so that I can afford it. I NEED to do everything this week. Only my goals decide whether my project is success 
or not. I NEED to succeed.

1
Breakfast-700 Lunch- 400 Dinner- 600
Walk: -800
Wokeup on time, walked 1.5 hrs. Need to do a lot more, and lose around 1.5-2 kgs this week.
Still I am getting distracted for around 30 mins to 1 hour of each day, and just browsing BS online. I NEED TO STOP THIS 
COMPLETELY. It has reduced by a lot, but even this intensity for 50 years is not enough to get to billionaire level. I JUST NEED 
TO BECOME THE BEST. Its not possible with these idiotic things, because none of what I am doing serves my goals.
Reduced walk a bit, I won't go full on this week because I need data first and see how much my weight is getting reduced 
with 20 hours walk, decently reduced diet, and increase exercise. Need to have data first, and then will either 
increase intensity or reduce diet. But its fine. I will be able to control and get to my ideal weight in 3 weeks.


CP/USACO: Sessions-> 1 Progress -> Still stuck. IDK what is wrong with me.
Book: Sessions-> 0Progress ->0
Guitar: Sessions->0 Progress ->0
Exercise: Sessions-> Progress -> 10 sets
Work: 1 session.
Walk: 4 hours
Curr weight-> 50.9

Lots of energy went today in walking and trying for USACO and exercise. Will make it better from tomorrow as well as reduce it 
slightly if weight is reducing and on track. However with my deficit I should be on track to lose 4 kg in this month.

2
Breakfast- 300 Lunch-500 Dinner- 700
Will walk a bit less, because other things are suffering. Need to check laptop shipment as well. Always a hassle.
was an easy sum https://codeforces.com/contest/1365/problem/D. I need to stop getting too complicated ideas, and stop 
myself and think "this is too complicated, I need to think something simpler". Most of the times it will strike me instead 
of just keeping to increase the complexity.
Lots of day will go today in setting up new laptop and everything else. Will just focus on guitar and exercise today.

CP/USACO: Sessions->1 Progress -> 1done
Book: Sessions-> Progress ->
Guitar: Sessions-> Progress ->
Exercise: Sessions-> Progress -> 11
Work: Sessions-> 3 Progress -> Lots of BS work came my way. Its fine. I need to handle things.
Weight: 50.55
Walk: 1/2 hour 

From next week will have a smoother routine. Today lots of sink in time like getting laptop, setting things 
up etc. I just need to furiously protect what I want to do and simply execute. I also need to have 
mellow goals and only when done just ramp it up a bit. I also need to avoid wasting even 10 mins because 
10 mins become 30, then 60 then 120. I am still wasting a lot of time, I need to avoid wasting any.

Also have 2 priority tasks of the week and 2 not so priority, and then switch things up week by week.
I CAN do this. I am very close. Now everything in my life is proper which wasnt even close 10-12 months ago .
Now its just extreme intensity and no excuses.




23/5-31/5

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

Decent. Atleast did the major work related tasks. But still USACO and guitar are suffering still. Need to lock 
in totally, or else after new company work, I will be cooked and lose all my goals. Need to succeed in medium 
term goals or else my project will just be a catalog of failures of a failed person with dreams. 

I cannot let that happen. I WILL do this. Need to do >20 hours per week USACO, >40 hours per week 
work and >20 hours per week guitar. These things need to be non negotiables. Alongwith exercise of 90+ sets a week 


XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

1. Finish ALL work tasks, including NPI CCN and ASC and new apis. Do everything immaculately so that no one has any reason 
to complain after I leave. DONE
2. USACO training 2-3 daily except rest day. Focus perfectly, and try and get around 3+ sums total.
focus but not really be intense on output YET. Ramp your capabilities first and slowly.
3. USACO silver 5 sums. 1
4. Track everything daily properly. Have 2 USACO sessions, 2 guitar, 1 book, 3 work and 1/2 exercise atleast 5 days. MEH
5. Track calories perfectly, never have >1500 calories. Have perfect protein >60 g daily. Always overestimate calories. DONE
6. Have 1 half day off 23rd evening, and 30th evening and relax. Destroy all weekly goals and slowly ramp up instead of aiming big and 
failing. Treat each second as very important and achieve perfect focus during the focus periods.
7. Guitar 22 hours total. 1
8. Read paradise lost, manga, comics.
9. Try and finish Standchen atleast >80%
10. Give KTs at work. DONE
11. Current weight 51.7-52.2. Target by sunday 50.9-51.4. Always take the maximum weight as weight. DONE curr 50.7-51.3
12. Weights 80 total. Do 25-30 alternate days. Walk when not lifting for 1 hour. for 3-4 days of week. 30
13. Start putting peanuts out for crows everyday at 6:30 AM. NOT NEEDED. Will do when I go to the flat.
14. Learn coffee using moka pot and make perfect cups. DONE.

23
Breakfast-200+300+300=800 Lunch- 300 Dinner- 550
Walk- -200 
resultant around 1450
1 USACO done. Will relax either today evening or tomorrow evening.
Relaxed today. Won't do much except guitar 1-2 sessions and book 1 session 

Book did 1 session. Guitar did 5 mins, not really in the mood to do more today, because I am tired
due to not sleeping after relaxing. Also walked for 45 mins. Its fine today was very chill, will be able to go intense from 
tomorrow. Read paradise lost and Naruto today. 2 sets weight. 


CP/USACO: Time-> 0 Progress -> 0
Book: Time-> 1 Progress -> book 1 of paradise lost done
Guitar: Time-> 0 Progress -> 0
Exercise: Time-> 0 Progress -> 2 sets 
Work: Time-> 0 Progress -> 0



24
Breakfast-200+300(eggs) = 500  Lunch- 400  Dinner- 600
Wokeup on time, put peanuts out.
Today goals: 2 sessions guitar, 1 session book, 2 sessions USACO, 1 session work, 10-15 sets exercise, perfect diet NOT DONE. 
Have some predictable inefficiencies, will solve them tomorrow.
Focus on basics and solving issues, but don't plan everything from day 1. Nothing is guaranteed. Intelligence is in navigating 
things on demand, not planning outright.
30 mins of USACO. Will need to do more, extremely intensely. 

45 mins of paradise lost done. Very complicated, will need to reread again.
currently doing flood fill and graph theory problems. Will do from both usaco.training and guide.

1 USACO done.
Cannot do more USACO today, tired and getting irritated now. Slightly failed, but will do more intensely from tomorrow 
morning, because morning is the only thing that I should do USACO/CP, if I miss morning, I should do it in weekends and 
cover next morning. 
Or else if I keep within 12-9 I will struggle a lot at work.

ALso don't sleep in day. 6 hours of sleep is fine, just make up for the sleep by sleeping early friday, saturday 
and sunday night. 



CP/USACO: Time-> 1/2 Progress -> 1 easy
Book: Time-> 1  Progress -> page 48 currently of Paradise Lost
Guitar: Time-> 1/2 Progress -> practiced what I had done. Will do more tomorrow.
Exercise: Time-> 0 Progress -> 4 sets didn't do much will do tomorrow to be more efficient
Work: Time-> 0 Progress -> 0  didn't do much due to predictable inefficiencies will 
do tomorrow to be more efficient


Today was worse than what I hoped, but not atrocious. If 1st half of the day gets wasted I will struggle  
a lot, if I can get most of my work before 3 PM then i will be in good shape. Will need to 
be very intense tomorrow and see what happens. Just starting of the day I need to go full 
force and only then will I be able to get to a decent place by evening and do guitar and 
book.

had a bit more than needed in food
not much but waffle was calorie dense and not really needed 
, will restrict tomorrow a lot and see the minimum I can eat 




25
Breakfast-200 Lunch- 1000 Dinner-
Goal: 2 USACO, 2 guitar, 1 book, 3 work, 20+ exercise sets. FAILED
Wokeup on time. Still struggling with going full on, as soon as day starts, messed it up a bit by not able ot sleep 
on time because I had slept a bit in evening.

i don't know whats wrong with me, I just keep looking for validation with easy dopamine hits. I have improved, but I need 
to improve a lot more to do what I am aiming to do. Need to have 16 hour productive days, and now they are not even 4-5.
Need to stop wasting time online and stop doing ANY activity thats a distraction from the actual goal of the week.
tried one but stuck in a sum. Need to be intense, which I am not doing rn.


CP/USACO: Time-> 1/2 Progress -> stuck in 1 sum https://codeforces.com/contest/1365/problem/D
Will do other things and see. I will do everything else except usaco today, and usaco will adjust in saturday and 
sunday morning.

A bit happy that I regulated my mood properly. But I NEED to be MUCH MORE INTENSE. Not getting the desired intensity. 
Also need to dial in diet or else its causing extreme weakness.

Book: Time->1 Progress -> very hard getting to book 2 of paradise lost. a bit stuck.
Guitar: Time-> 1/2 Progress -> 1/3 remaining major parts practice 
Exercise: Time-> 0 Progress -> Failure. Will need to do a lot tomorrow.
Work: Time-> 3 session Progress -> did half of api work for feedback form and other things. also did clinical lab change in 
dev and preprod. Also did KT.

From tomorrow will be extremely intense, need to be intense in first half of the week and then mellow down in second half and 
get 70% progress by thursday. I need to go all in and put immense pressure on myself. That is the only way to improve.

Don't worry about getting X% ready or Y% better than this or that person, I just need to work my 
soul off. The better I become the better. The odds of reaching convergence are so miniscule that 
I NEED to work and negate every possibility of failure. Every second of my life is important.







26
Breakfast- 300 Lunch- 600  Dinner- 700
Goal: 2 USACO, 3 guitar, 1 book, 3 work Exercise 30+ sets
Protein >50 g
unable to solve USACO and getting intrusive thoughts. Need to discipline myself and try extremely hard in things I am not 
able to do.Its not about getting the tick, but learning new things.
Now I am getting a bit better. But still talking to clankers and arguing about idiotic things is something I need to let go of.
I am just getting bored of challenging and am looking for more stimulation from topics I KNOW and basically dwelling over things 
that I CAN talk about. I NEED to challenge myself constantly. Every second is important, and I need to treat it. I am getting 
derailed still. I NEED to treat every second as sacred, and just start work even when I am bored and not wanting to.

CP/USACO: Time-> 1 Progress -> stuck in a problem. Need to sketch out brute force first and only then optimize.
Will do 1 more by 4 PM 

Book: Time-> 1 session Progress -> still stuck in book 2 almost same area. Having trouble following whats happening 
after a particular point around line 480
Guitar: Time-> 0 Progress -> 0 Coffee took all the time.
Exercise: Time-> 50 mins Progress -> 22
Work: Time-> 5 sessions Progress -> KT and NPI CCN automation work. Will need to do more, because its getting  
exhausting. Also worked on feedback form API. Everyone is irritating me now and its extremely stressful. Will just 
get it over with and work 3 days from tomorrow and get away with this toxicity.


Lots of time on coffee perfection, moka pot is extremely hard to get right
Need to dial in properly.
Had a bit more food, but because I was extremely exhausted form the coffee and drank a bit too much which messed up sleep a bit.
Now will only drink no more than 1 moka pot coffee in morning before 12.













27


Breakfast- 500 Lunch-400  Dinner- 700
Goal: 2 USACO, 3 guitar, 1 book, 3 work,
Protein >50 g
wokeup a bit late at 7:30, peanuts for crows wasn't done. I need to get this work shit out of the way today itself >80% 
so that the rest of the week i can do what I want. Its mentally taxing because I don't want to.
Not doing those huge code changes I was thinking of, because if it doesn't work, they will put the blame on me.
The old code is working as expected for an npi pointed out by carissa, so will let that handle the mappings and 
just tell them to do code changes based on what you want to map.
Huge burden is lifted now. Now just need to do basic things, and put ASC on prod by EOD and then I will be done.
i am not doing relaxation, but also not really able to work intensely. I will complete guitar first today, then give KT and then 
USACO 
Need to bathe as well asap.

Perfected coffee as well. Very happy. Now guitar and USACO need to manage. Will do a bit today, and get rid of KTs and shit.


CP/USACO: Time-> 0 Progress -> Bad, getting tired and unable to do much. WIll have to make up for it.
Book: Time-> 1 Progress -> Again started book 1 of paradise lost, read monster and ulysses as well
Guitar: Time-> 10 mins Progress ->just revision
Exercise: Time-> 10 mins Progress -> 5
Work: Time-> 1 Progress -> All work done. Just need to give KT on mapping and ASC and push ASC to prod by EOD.

















28

Breakfast- 800 Lunch- 500 Dinner-800
Goal: 2 USACO, 3 guitar, 1 book, 15+ exercise
Protein >50 g

Didn't wakeup on time. Coffee is messing upwith sleep a bit, I will get used to it, its fine. I just need to focus on the current 
tasks and getting as much as possible done after I wake up. Sleep is so hard to get right with increasing capability. 
Just overall duration should be good and weekly average should be decent. Time of waking up and sleeping is very hard to get 
like an athelete and won't happen this quickly.
Great coffee. Now its dialled in great.



CP/USACO: Time-> 1 Progress -> Still stuck in the same problem.
Need more intensity. I am still able to concentrate, but I need extremely deep focus to move forward with the amount of force 
I want/need. Will again try from tomorrow and see. Today will finish more guitar and exercise and book. Work is done so not 
worried about it that much.
Book: Time-> 1 Progress -> Book 1 in paradise lost. Still facing issues.
Guitar: Time-> Progress ->
Exercise: Time-> Progress ->
Work: Time-> 0 Progress -> 0

There are some things I have solved. But still I need much more intensity, and perfect week. Its still far from what I want 
ideally. I am very close to 8-9 year old phelps intensity, but I am going back and forth on the implementation. Some days its 
great, and some days I am falling into rest and complacency. I need extreme intensity for 5-6 days of the week. Will do 
it extremely from next week onwards, and complete as much as possible by sunday.

Wrapped up work and coffee this week. But USACO and gutiar are still suffering. I will lock in from tomorrow and go maximum 
intensity, or else it will become impossible. I CAN DO IT.










29


Breakfast- 600 Lunch- 1200  Dinner-1000
Goal: 3 USACO, 4 guitar, 1 book, 20+ exercise sets.

Protein >50 g

Sleep is still messed up. I need to just sleep on time and wakeup on time, and not sleep on work hours. 
Removed relaxation goal. Once every 2 weeks works fine for me. Once every week is overkill and will just hijack my brain.
No matter how the night is, I will work and achieve all my daily goals. Tire the brain and body so much its forced to correct 
sleep. If I don't work properly and do stimulating things, it will be messed up, but small chinks are fine. I don't need to sleep 
like a baby all the time. Just few days a week works fine which I have already had.
Still resting a bit in morning, its very very hard to sustain, I NEED to fix sleep and things asap, and get to the intensity 
I NEED TO. Its very urgent, if I don't get it by next week, my medium term goals will get delayed which CANNOT HAPPEN.
Had to sleep around 3 hours. Will still try my best to do USACO, exercise and guitar.
Will do 1 USACO today and 2 guitar. I am having difficulty still in doing everything. Need to lock in absolutely. 
Today will correct the sleep issue and routine issue. And from tomorrow will absolutely do the routine extremely well 

It needs to be a well oiled machine. I CAN do it. I WILL DO IT. I WILL get ALL my medium term goals, and will complete 
USACO silver and gold within 6 months. THats the bare minimum. Even after that I will need to do lots of things 
to get to GM. I CANNOT delay it ANY FURTHER. Everything else will be handled, and I WILL do guitar 15-20 hours a 
week at MINIMUM. I NEED TO DO THIS, ALONGSIDE ALL THE EXCELLENT COMPANY WORK. I WILL. No excuses from now on.
EVeryhting in my routine and every single one of my urges are satisfied now. I NEED to do this. Also stuck today 
in home work due to storm and rain. Messed things up as well.

CP/USACO: Time->0 Progress -> BAD BAD. Need to fix this ASAP.
Book: Time-> Progress ->
Guitar: Time-> Progress ->
Exercise: Time-> Progress ->
Work: Time-> Progress ->






















15/5 - 24/5

NOT DONE. DECENT BUT I NEED TO IMPROVE AND HAVE A PERFECT WEEK. PERFECT DAY MAYBE NOT, But perfect weeks are possible.


1. Finish ALL work list tasks. Major being the NPI-CCN new mapping process and ASC  NOT DONE
2. USACO training 4 hours daily. Try to do 12 sums. 4 done DECENT
3. USACO silver 5 sums. NOT DONE
4. Guitar 20 hours. Try 3-4 daily. 3 NOT DONE 
5. Exercise 100 sets 76 DONE
6. Finish Don quixote DONE. Complete crime and punishment 100 pages. 25 done.
7. Give KTs DONE. Perfect routine and perfect work tasks. NOT DONE
8. Great diet. Get weight to 50.2 kg. curr->51.7 NOT DONE
Stuck in this weight, next week will do extreme diet for 1 week and see how much I can reduce.


9. Relax on sunday evening. DONE
10. Get sim of airtel with same number CANNOT DO 
because of plan not porting. Need to wait for plan to expire. Will enable 
wifi calling meanwhile and always keep wifi on for my phone. Get cleaning done from dental hospital.
11. Eat 3 times a day. Eat a bit more and walk more. Like eat 1500-1600 calories and walk around 1.5 hours.
Eat as healthy as possible. Try one fruit a day and pumpkin seeds and chia seeds everyday, alongwith decent home 
cooked food and chicken and protein shake and lots of protein. DECENT.

ISSUE: I am setting too many goals, and getting scrambled in the day. I am also procrastinating a bit and getting to around 
4-5 hours of tasks, but squandering the rest, and not tracking everything correctly. Will do it this week.

15
Calories:  breakfast- 760 lunch- 600 had 600 calorie evening snack as well. Bhujia and others dinner- 1600
Did a lot today. Its fine. A few days were "cheat". Will do < approx 1000 on avg for all other days, but will increase 
walking and quality of calories so that everything is amazing. A few days of cheat won't backtrack my weight, but 
I was just too miserable for a long time.

Will see what I can do from tomorrow and how much weight I am gaining at the end of the week if any.
Today: USACO 2 sets, Guitar 3 hours (2sets), Exercise 12-15 sets, Interview. 
1 USACO done.
Decent work today. Will do more intense from tomorrw. Just will do exercise and guitar and interview today alongwith 40-50
pages ofbook.
Exercise 12 sets.
Interview took. Was satisfied with my performance.

Guitar is difficult today. Will do novel instead.




16
Target: <800
Walk: 1.5 hr
Calories:  breakfast-200 lunch- 400-500 dinner-300
Today: 2 USACO, exercise 15 sets, walk, guitar 3 hours, book 50 pages.
Again I am spiralling towards clanker talk, being anxious and just being bad at producvitiy. A slight work issue is enough 
for me to spiral, specially when I don't know what to do and fixing it is long term and hard. I need to stop doing that, and just 
control what I want to control in that moment. Let life unfold the way it does, and focus on things that will move the needle 
in next 1-2 years. For anything else, don't bother. Let people form whatever opinions they will, interactions will be on win win 
pragmatic bases anyways.

Wasn't able to do much. Book done. Walk, exercise and guitar not done. USACO was able to do some.
Had lots of issues at home, but atleast I didnt spiral on anything and just kept my eyes shut and rested. 
I will only talk to others if they are calm, and not prone to screaming. If anyone cannot do that, goodbye.
Also if someone does that and I need to interact with them, they have to prove first to not be a screamer.



17
Walk 1.5 hour
Target<1400
Calories:  breakfast-100 lunch-600 dinner-600
have to care for a neonate kitten. very stressful. Will try feeding every 2-3 hours and stimulating urination and see.
I HAVE to take care of it or itw ill die without my care. Its just forced and I feel bad but I HAVE to do it.
Other than that I can do guitar and book in the time between, thats ht emaximum I will be able to do.
The kitten didn't survive. 
From now I NEED to focus with everything I have got. This week will be immensely tough but I NEED TO do it. Later 
it will become easier



18
Walk 1 hour
Target <800 FAILED
Calories:  breakfast- 340 lunch- 500 dinner- 2000 4000 total.
Didn't wake up on time. Lots of grief due to recent events and other things. Its fine. I have coping strategies now, 
and they should work. I can be more intense than before or atleast I think so. Changed weekly goals a bit and will achieve 
them as much as possible now. Need to jsut be extremely intense and atleast get 90%+ of all my goals and ALL goals that 
are not related to USACO.
Tried a bit of USACO. Still stuck in the same problem.
Completed it.
Walk is getting very very hard and almost impossible because of the summer heat. I will just do 15+ weights today and try for more 
and eat a bit less
Had immense calories, well tbh not that much but still immense due to so small margin of error for me. 
WIll eat extremely less from tomorrow and do it for 6 days and see how much weight i am losing.
I need to almost fast, and anything I eat/drink should be protein or watery fibre like an apple for instance.
Its just very small margin of error for me, and it is very hard to do when food is available for 3 times a day 
and I cannot escape it.
Guitar is still the sufferer. Will have to do 5+ hours per day this week and get somewhat more than goals till Sunday, 
after that next week will be able to do like 2-3 hours per day.
Exercise 13 sets 


19
Walk 1 hour
Target <1200
Calories:  breakfast- 500 2 eggs lunch- 600 dinner-
Wokeup on time.
Didn't do USACO because of time . 
Its also impossible to have <1200 without starving myself. I am not sure how do I make sure 
calories are fine so that I can reduce weight. I will need some starvation. ALso I need to make sure 
weights don't go down no matter what.Now I should be able to hit 80 sets per week. And next week will do 90. 
It should be 100 sets with my dumbbells and each set being 10 reps. This is a good metric for me.
5 sets weight. Will do 15 more today at 4 PM.
15 total.
Walk 30 mins 
Finished don quixote.
Guitar is still suffering. Need to do 5-6 hours for 4-5 days and then dial it down to 3 and keep it. I BASICALLY HAVE to 
do 20 hours a week, no matter what. Its hard now because with classical I am really hitting a ceiling on what I want to do, 
but I should really focus on getting better, and then electric will be much more fun. 






20
Walk 1 hour
Target <800
Calories:  breakfast-300 lunch- 400 dinner- 800
Woke up late, because slept late. Need to fix this. Its fine, didn't sleep in the afternoon so this is happening. Need to sleep 
around 10:30-11 max.
Urgent: GUitar 4-5 hours,exercise 15 sets and USACO. Everything else will wait.
https://usaco.training/usacoprob2?a=CriFuhxyLp0&S=numtri
Did the brute force but its getting TLE. Need to maybe do bfs?
Decent days are going now, but I cna do much more intense. Its around 7-8 yoe phelps now when I am 
on but sometimes decreasing it for no reason. I need to increase it 
extremely well. I CAN do it. Need to be EXTREMELY INTENSE, from the moment I Wake up.

30 mins guitar. Will do more tomorrow. Decent.
Exercise 15 sets.
<800 calories are becoming very very restrictive. Need to eat a bit more and exercise more.


21
Walk 1 hour
Target <1200
Calories:  breakfast- 300 with protein shake lunch-600 dinner-400
Walk 30 mins
Today need guitar 5-6 hours.
Wokeup on time.
Did 1 USACO. Changed it to memoization and it worked.
https://usaco.training/usacoprob2?a=5ticHX1TWll&S=pprime
Brute force is fine. But primes check we can do probably with slight precomputation and bitset.
2 USACO done.
13 sets weight.
Guitar 2 hours.
Will do 8 hours next 3 days and it will be fine. After that will try and do 3-4 hours per day.
Book did a few pages, Will do 30-40 more before sleeping.




22
Walk 1 hour
Target <800 not possible, this is too less. Need to increase a bit.
Calories:  breakfast-150 lunch- 800  dinner-800
Sleep bit bad today. Will nap just a bit and then sleep in time. I need to have food after 8 and have lots of carbs. 
I did a bit early yesterday and i didn't expect to mess it up, but it did, resulting in only sleeping 3-4 hours tonight.
Trying 1 USACO.
Messed up a bit, tired due to less sleep. I guess I will just power through if I don't feel sleepy before 2 PM, After that 
it will mess up my cycle.

1 USACO done.
Napped 1.5 hours.

3 hour guitar done.
2 sets weight. Will try to do 10 more today.
6 sets done 
Guitar I can do now. Weight loss is becoming very very difficult. I need to just not care about anything except calories and 
protein. I also need to always take multivitamins, and increase consumption of protein and chia seed and chicken to unchartered 
territory what I haven't done ever. And stop eating anything else. I won't care and I will fight anyone who coaxes me to 
eat otherwise.

I will scale back the routine a bit, and set achievable goals and crush all the weekly goals before thinking big.
Now the major tasks are all the major work tasks, USACO consistency, and guitar and book consistency, I need to achieve everything 
asap.




23
Walk 1 hour
Target <1200
Calories:  breakfast- 800 lunch- dinner-
woke up a bit late. Sleep happened a bit late.
Need to do guitar around 4-5 hours to compensate for a long time of not being able to do. WIll do around 30 hour weeks for 2-3 months 
and then reduce to 20. Will do guitar just continuosuly while working. 
Read from USACO a bit, didn't do sum yet. 11 AM. 
Ate decent, Will eat very less and have everything with protein in it. Coffee,Eggs, Apple or fruits, 
Chia seed, Protein shake and chicken fried or roasted are 
my primary food. Everything else is additional calories which I need to take into account.
USACO 1 session done. 2 remaining. Wo


XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXx

Finishing today. Will track again and make new weekly goals anew.

















11/5 - 17/5
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Masturbated and stopped this by the middle. Figured out what I can 
do for stress relief and the final solution to all issues i was having. 
Will schedule it and just work intensely with focus and a cheerful persona.
ALso figured out karma yoga and personality intersection. Will be able to implement from tomorrow (15/5)


XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
0. Take second half of sunday off. Don't do ANYTHING after 4 PM just to see how much are you facing pressure and if you 
are having bandwidth or not.
1. 8 USACO training problems 0
2. 3 USACO silver problems  0
3. 200 50 pages of book 10DONE of ulysses 
4. 12 hours of guitar in total. Be very consistent and do it every day. 0
5. 5 work tasks. 
6. Take interviews as needed. DONE
7. 70 sets weight, 40 before thursday. 36
8. Perfect routine, perfect everything else. Work perfectly as well and have flow. Give KTs.
9. Weight 50.4 target. 
10. Don't take too much pressure. Relax a bit as well if you are getting overwhelmed.
11. Eat lots of protein. Get an average of 60 gms per day and have chicken 2-3 times in the week. Notice calories 
as well and have around 1200-1500 in the day.


11
Didn't wake up on time today. Because sleep was a bit messed by sleepign yesterday during the day.
Its fine, its nothing major. I will just not read book today because yesterday was enough and read 1 chapter of ulysses which 
is a lot to take in anyways.
https://usaco.training/usacoprob2?a=Pv3I6ZwoCyY&S=wormhole
I am not making cases. Need to make cases for each N and see what the answer can be for each, and only then will I understand the
full calculation.
5 sets weight. Cannot do USACO tried with 1 set. Will try more tomorrow. TOday very tired.
Only work remaining is guitar, and exercise today. From tomorrow will do with full intensity.

Always relax and chill. Don't rush anything. And don't depend on others for any work you want to do. People are just 
a numbers game, and about getting good at anticipating the human mind. Nothing else.

Lots of time wasted today. I can do much better than this. But I have finally solved the desire issue that I have.
I need to calm my mind. I won't even enjoy something temporary because ultimately what I want is something big and 
extreme and it will only ONLY work when I work hard and slowly. It will not be quick. It will be 1 step at a time.
That is the only way it will work for me. I CAN FOCUS from tomorrow. I WILL. VINCERO.

Had good amount of calories today. From tomorrow will do like <1000 calories everyday and walk 1 hour 
and see how much weight I have lost to calculate and estimate my daily requirement.

12
Woke up on time. Good thing that even without alarm I woke up.
Still stuck. I need to get rid of this blockage I have of not trying sums fully. I NEED to try it fully and solve it 
if there are no weird techniques and the theory is in my reach. I WILL DO IT.
Today goals: 1 USACO training try, 1 session guitar, 30 sets weight try your best and see what happens. 


Enjoy whatever you are doing. Without enjoying and being calm it just becomes a huge chore and much more depressing than 
it should be.
15 pages ulysses. Feels like a chore but very enjoyable.
2 sets weight done.
Today's day is still fine. Just need to do 30 weights and guitar today. Then the day will be great.
For USACO it is causing me depression as well as inability to do routine coupled with intense diet. But its fine. I will 
get stronger. As for the issues I am facing in life, nothing but what I am planning to do is acceptable to who I am. I 
just need to work properly and aim for long term amazing life, and not short term pleasures, because I won't even find 
them remotely pleasurable. If needed I will get a good job and go for orgies in vegas or somewhere else once every 4-5 months. 
that is still much better than the normal life for me.
15 sets weight total today. Just need to focus more on USACO and trying properly and with conviction and 
structure the problems I am stuck on, and simply eating a bit more and moving more. THis should work for what I am trying 
to achieve. As for the depression, it won't go away unless I achieve my goals. Same with the sexual things I am worried about, 
any other life for me is simply not acceptable, and even if I do
I will have to compromise a whole lot that is much more important and it 
will lead to even more depression than there is now which would be idiotic.



13
Couldn't wake up on time. I don't know what is going on, a mix of diet and intensity and sexual thoughts is constraining 
and suffocating my routine.
Anyways. Will do less company work today to compensate. Todays goals-> USACO, guitar 2 sessions, book don quixote (no ulysses)
and KT 
Tried USACO a lot, but I am still having issue with total focus. I am doing with half focus. Maybe because of that not able to do.
Its ok. Will again try tomorrow. This is the main blocker. Even if I can do honestly with full focus, and fail, that is better 
for learning than doing 10 sums that I CAN do.
The weekly goals are aim and its aiming for sky. Slowly those will happen as well.
Just need to stop wasting ANY time, every second should be used optimally. And don't sulk and don't lose focus. Your life 
is itself much bigger than anything that anyone can have.
10 sets weight.

Guitar will do from 5-9/10
For USACO tried a lot but still facing issues.
The thing is I just need to focus and not do random things while thinking. I need focused time and deep thinking. My thinking 
quality is the issue, even though I can work a lot now, much much better than before.


Guitar did 10 mins, and exercise 10 sets. Feeling very very sad and almost worthless, but maybe its because of the change.
Its working, I will be able to do it, meanwhile I need to channel all my dissatisfaction with my current life and 
the desire to the ideal life to work. I CANNOT even start dating unless I get to google and close to codeforces GM. 
These are non negotiables. First do that, and then plan on the problem solving aspect of dating the kind of women I want and 
basically engineer your life yourself. I CAN do this in 2-3 years. Only then will I succeed. 10k hours in everything  is the 
key.

Channel all energy and dissatisfaction into work.
Only was able to pickup guitar. Will have to do 4 hour tomorrow. I just NEED to sort this on priority. USACO and guitar 
and book is messing me up. I WILL do it.



14
wokeup on time. 
1 usaco did. i need to work on implementation and clear thinking. I wasn't able to do that specific problem even hwen I 
had all the right ideas, its about keeping it very very simple. Now in all other problems keep this in mind. I need to learn this 
skill if I want to cross 1500.
Need to do 4 hours guitar today.
2 usaco done.
Masturbate today , because its not working. Too much sexual tension is built up. I NEED release in a healthy way.
Schedule masturbation every other week.
Also do it at night before sleeping. Today is fine because it was getting too much. But think of these things pragmatically, 
i tried one approach and it didn't work. Now I will do this instead. Schedule it and the pressure goes away.
Don't attribute any shame to masturbation. Its not. Its just a practical thing that works for me. Same with hentai
Just keep it practically low frequency and anything >=once per week is low enough. Everything else will take care of itself.

Won't focus much on USACO today. First I need to practice well. I need to sketch out EVERYTHING that I am going to 
code first. And only then code. And I need to mathematically derive things before coding. And also focus on simple 
implementation. These are the things I need to learn.

And don't attach mood so much to external outcomes. Be a bit more stable and focused.
Make it a non event. Dont focus on it too much. Every sunday evening is a good idea.


Did it twice. Its fine. Relaxed today, will work hard on sunday as well. I needed this because the stress release 
and other things were a bit amiss. Now it will be fine. 3 days from tomorrow can be intense. Will do 4 hours guitar for 
the next 3 days, do a backlog of guitar next week, start the work on my worklist on sunday and do USACO 4-5 hours.
Also will finish don quixote by tuesday. This will be the plan.

5000 calories today. I will see what the weight is on sunday. Just need to eat a bit more and walk more and do weights more. 
Will have to understand how much I am losing.






4/5 - 10/5
Solution: 
1. "Day" doesn't start until 10 AM. Don't check anything before 10 AM. Just focus on coffee and USACO from 6-10
2. Do guitar and book 1/2 or 1 session atleast 1 before 3 PM to alleviate some stress. 
3. Work in 1 session blocks.
4. Exercise frontload in first half of the week to complete MOST of the target.
5. Eat a good amount of dinner. SHould be your biggest meal.
6. Don't sleep in day unless sleep is <6 hours that day.
7. Do all other things except USACO while in work hours depending on the pending tasks at work.
8. At work always keep a priority list of things, and be very intelligent about working with DEEP flow.
9. Try and avoid veyr quick context switches, and when clock starts don't leave until the clock is done and you have reached a 
checkpoint in any task you were doing.
10. Do exercise half and half, half sets of the day before 3 PM and other before 8 PM.

Failed a bit in major goals, but learnt a lot, key is to apply all the learnings in upcoming weeks.



LEARNING-> Need to go full force but also find 
time to rest a bit during the day. I am getting a bit stressed juggling multiple things 
as well as doing small things and context switching that is not visible in this sheet.
I also need to keep learning each week and improving things. For eg I learned that sexual ideas and freedom is getting 
repressed. So need to find atleast some healthy outlet, as well as aim to keep it aside for some time while working.
I CAN do it, but also I am getting tired with context switches, just anticipation of tasks causing pressure, and I am getting 
sad as a result. I Am doing FINE, but I am getting crushed by my own ambition. I just need to take it 1 task at a time, 
and time box it. I also need to fully focus when I am on the clock, and find time to relax a bit between it. I also need 
to slow down myself whenever I notice myself getting anxious. Its a skill and it will develop. Now I am doing much better than 
before but I know I can do much better.


1. 7 problems from USACO training 8 DONE
2. 5 problems from USACO guide silver NOT DONE
3. 4 problems from to again list. NOT DONE
4. 3 contests + full upsolve. Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Not doing contests. NOT DONE. WON'T DO. Its bad for me.
and not at all helpful now. I need to complete silver asap and then will do contests 1 a week and after gold will increase it to 
4-5. Only then will it be helpful. ANything else is idiotic and feels like just implementation without studying.
5. 5 tasks from work list and give KT 2 tasks done. Basically need to be more intense at work so that I can do more. 
Will start 1 more task from sunday. Need to get to the intensity that I can do 2 problems in morning for USACO and 
4 problems on weekends, alongiwth 1 work session. In weekdays I will do 2-3 sessions of work, and from Monday will focus on 
work mostly and complete ALL the tasks from the task list. 

6. 10 hours of guitar full week. Reduced it from 20.  DECENT. CAN DO MUCH BETTER.
First I will do 10, and then increase to 15-20. Minimum is 10, but I will try around 30 as I improve. THis week 10
is fine. 6 hours
7. 250-300 pages of don quixote as comprehension and enjoyment is suffering if I do more. Do 30 pages per sitting 
for any book and do 2 sittings per day. Start: 575 Now: 734 DECENT. Can do better. 

Started reading odyssey and Ulysses as well. Done till book 2 of odyssey.
7.5 Complete Brave new world. DONE. Not worth reading fully but extracted everything I wanted.
8. 65 sets weight. 45
9. Get weight to 51.5kg. Have calories <1500 daily. 50.8 Amazing progress.
Weight is fluctuating a lot. I need to just check Sunday 6 AM weight to get the actual one.
10. Perfect routine, Perfect walk and other things.

I need to improve myself so that I can do 2-3 usaco sums daily and 4 in weekends. Only if I do this repeatedly for 6 months will 
i get to Expert in CF. 
This week remaining tasks. Complete Don QUixote target, guitar, exercise and be able to focus on 2-3 problems per day for USACO.



4
wokeup on time.
1 USACO training done.
https://usaco.training/usacoprob2?a=syVVyg0BHxy&S=transform
Very good sum for me to make me implement large problems as well as creating modular functions and classes. Need to do it fully 
myself.
I am doing good, but a large part of the morning is still wasted. I don't need to talk to clankers, just think of myself 
and trust my thoughts and decide decisively. Be confident. What you are thinking makes sense and is correct.

Now I JUST need to not get distracted AT ALL, and keep at it even and specially when its painful. Pain is  
a signal that I am atleast trying hard. From now on I will keep at hard things, specially when I don't feel like 
it. Just keep a timer and keep going. Nothing should stop me. Or sleep. That is the only work I have. Don't do 
things of low return. ALways target highest return ideas and push your mind and encounter new and hard things.
1 hour guitar. 
1 hour walk. Don Qixote curr 613
Good diet, but still had tandoori chicken from outside. Will restrict even more from tomorrow and see how I feel.
Also need to be a bit more intense in usage of my time for USACO and work, and in guitar and exercise. Or else will have 
everything at last moment which will become very very hard and I will miss some thing for weekly goals, which is unacceptable.
Can do guitar + work tasks remaining, so will do that tomorrow.
Had to eat half a burger because nisa wasn't doing it. Total COULD HAVE touched 2000 cal. Will eat <800 calories tomorrow 
to compensate.



5
Wokeup on time.
1 USACO training done.
2 USACO training done.
Contest day Give contest from 10-12
A bit delayed to give contest. Will give it today. 
https://codeforces.com/contest/2132/countdown Giving today 
I am not at all finding any pleasure from giving contest. I will just keep doing USACO training, and finish asap till gold.
After that will give ONLY CONTESTS like 4-5 a week and i will just start with div 2. It just seems like a waste of time and 
like giving exams while studying a subject midway. Its not at all pleasurable. Will remove contests totally, and maybe give 1 serious 
one a week after I complete silver. For now I am deriving much more pleasure just being stuck in USACO problems and gridning 
one after hours and implementing a huge one for hours.

Won't give contests. I just want to finish USACO and USACO training ASAP. Thats what is very very interesting to me. I iwll do that instead.
3 usaco training done.

Walk 1 hour. Not able to do weights. Need to do them around 10 AM. Because tution and other things lead to bad privacy 
and I am unable to do it.
Same with guitar.
I will do guitar today, but I need to make a time properly.
Best is around morning and afternoon.

Did guitar around 10 mins. Need to furiously protect my time while being intense.


6
Wakeup on time.
2 USACO training done.

Today: Do 3-4 USACO training, guitar 3 hours, 15-20 sets weights, don quixote 50+ pages and do the new process for 
top payers data so that it is clearly run and executed well.
major task done for work. Made a new process for top payers refresh.

Won't be able to walk today. Will eat very less to compensate. Also will do weights.
10 sets weight done. Will do a bit more before sleeping. Also USACO is fine but I could have focused 2-3 hours more 
in the morning. Will do that from tomorrow.
Guitar and USACO intensity is failing, so is book reading even though its decent. Guitar is catastrophic and other htings are fine.
For guitar iwll ramp up starting from 10 hours per week, and will try to get this minimum, even saturday sunday 6 hours can 
get more. So this will be the plan. No matter how bad the week, 10 hours I will get. Also will increase intensity a bit more 
and stop talking to clankers completely except for work. Think "prompt" not "talk"




7
On time.
1 USACO training.
I should really focus more in the morning with full intensity. Or else things will derail hard once I have joined.
Did around 1.5 hours with intensity. But can do a lot more. Need 3-4 hours before even the day starts at 11 AM.
2 sets weight Will do 13 more. Good reading. 
Just with USACO I need to do it intensely from 6:30/7 - 10/10:30. This I Need with urgency alongiwht atleast 5-6 hours of work. 
Or else it will become impossible to get where i am. Now I am working around 3-4 hours a day with urgency and getting around 5-6 hours 
of work, I need to almost double it to have any shot at billionaire level wealth in 50 years. As for getting to convergence
it will be even harder but I NEED to work much harder. Its good but nowhere near the maximum I am capable of.
1 hour walk. 
total 12 sets weight. 
Again, all things are going decent except guitar. Need to pick up the slack on priority. Also I am wasting lots of time in 
minor things and also efficiency is suffering due to not eating properly. I have to plan it so that I eat low calorie but filling 
food and I have to push most carbs at night so that sleep is top notch. Also <1000 is very hard, maybe fine for some days 
a week, but I need to adjust and plan my food because my margin of error is very less. 



8
Wokeup on time despite diet issues and sleep issues. Sleep is fine now, but can be better. Need to improve carbs at night to 
avoid having this problem and need to have very less margin of error alongwith good quality food.
1 USACO training done. Will positively do guitar 2-3 hours today or else it will get totally out of hand.
I can do more. But today I am just too tired. Need to eat a bit more to feel better. Will see if I can squeeze 2-3 hours in evening. 
Will do weights around 20 as well. 
https://usaco.training/usacoprob2?a=5peUgXWq9xk&S=combo
Slightly stuck in this. its easy just need to focus a bit.

Messed things up a bit because sleep wasn't happening properly. Now will have food at night positively and will never skip 
dinner. 7 sets weight. Will do 5 more before sleeping. 
10 sets weight.
Guitar 1 hour.
Good thing guitar is not cumulative and can be practiced a lot in 1 day. Will do 3 sessions tomorrow and after that.


9
Goal: 3 sessions guitar very important
Got up on time
1 USACO training done.
Cannot focus more, because getting distracted as well as not having enough motivation to time limit myself and focus for the 
whole time. Need to do it. Will do guitar 3 sessions and then try in evening after exercise.
With hard things I am losing motivation. I need to focus so that I can repeatedly solve 1700-1800 cf adjacent problems. 
Still I need to think how I can have extreme motivation and extreme work ethic to work 3-4 hours in the morning and still 
do ALL the tasks in my day. Will try again in the evening. I need the burst of work that I can sustain 2-3 times a month, and 
get it to sustain for the WHOLE WEEK every week. This is a genuinely hard problem, because the mind is searhcing for pressure 
release valve. But I need to condition it. I WILL DO IT. I have to, because or else my goals won't be completed in the window 
that I want.
The only "advantages" I have are the possibility of the fruit 50 years later, the ambition of my long term vision, 
and my absolute clarity and confidence on it. I need to use those and the only way is to go absolutely deep into flow 
that I don't even notice anything else. That is the only way for me to be even close to anything resembling satisfaction.

3 hour guitar done.
Just I need to cut all the waste of time, and either sleep and rest or just work with intensity. Around half the day 
and half my capabilities are getting wasted due to relying on motivation. There is no "Want". There is only tasks you 
HAVE to do. A soul doesn't have any choice. You have to always live with extreme intensity.




10
Goal: 3 sessions guitar very important
wokeup on time.
tried one usaco but stuck.
Still I need to work on intensity. I am getting tired and burnt out during the day. I need to work on my ideas 
so that I am always intense and can work 15-16 hours a day without issues. Now I am unable to sustain the intensity 
I am getting for a few days. I will make better targets next week and achieve them. Still it was fine. But I can do a lot better.
TOday I can rest a bit. Wasn't able to do 1 USACO, but I will be able to if I concentrate. JUst will complete don 
quixote as much as possible and do guitar 3 sessions.
10 sets exercise.
guitar not done much. Will do 1 session. From tomorrow the next week guitar and everything will be hitting my goals.





27/4-3/5

1. 12 USACO problems. DONE
2. Start Bronze USACO problems left and complete as much as possible. 3 DONE
3. 3 problems from codeforces/usaco problems to do again list NOT DONE
4. 3 contests and full upsolve.  NOT DONE. Need to do Monday, Wed and Fri as delayed it and messed up.
5. Complete 5 tasks from work list and give KT everyday. DONE
6. Perfect routine, perfect guitar and perfect exercise. DECENT 
7. Weight target 50.6 NOT DONE
8. 60 sets of weights total in week. 60 DONE
9. 600 pages of book in the week. 300. Can do 350 maximum, that is the limit I think. I need to do 50 pages a day at max.
Not needed 600 because its hard and affects comprehension and depth. 300 pages is sweet spot for hard fiction.




27
Woke up on time. 
still stuck in https://usaco.org/index.php?page=viewproblem2&cpid=1304 but I am also having difficulty putting on timer 
and just going at it with full force for 3 hours. Need to do it first before looking at any kind of solution.
Walked 1.5 hours. Stuck in 1 USACO sum. Couldn't do guitar and other things. I HAVE to fix my guitar now. 
Its getting delayed and delayed and I HATE it. Tomorrow will do it, I need to get up at 6 dot and be full force 
as soon as I start the day, only then will I be able to do it. Slight work, USACO and walking alongwith 
book reading is eating into ALL FUCKING DAY. I need to guard my time furiously and furiously do MOST tasks before 3 PM 
Diet was good, did protein, now need to again set calories and walk >1 hour everyday inorder to have ANY impact 
on weight. Also didn't do weights today. Its fine 60 sets I will be able to achieve in the week. 





28
Wokeup on time. 

Did 1 usaco bronze and read book 45 mins.
Book 30 mins more.
6 sets weights. 45 mins walk.
Didn't do more today since I ate less.
Had a bit more food. Also did guitar 20 mins. 
I am having difficulty doing guitar more because of waning interest in classical and rising interest in electrical + 
getting tired by 7-8 PM 
Need to solve both problems because the interest issue is just temporary and the tiredness issue is due to routine.
Will take the guitar problem on priority from next week, and see to it that I achieve the weekly targets. This week the 
targets to be achieved are in the goals. Apart from that guitar I can keep a sensible amount as much as possible, without 
sabotaging my current weekly goals. 


29
Wokeup on time.
Started on USACO sum but stuck. Need to try much harder.
1.2 hours walk. Good diet. 1 hour book. 
10 sets weight. I need to be able to do 15 from tomorrow, and need to get to the point where I can do 15 everyday. I ate less 
today so 10 is passable, but 15 needs to be the target.
No guitar but book reading was good. Can do much better in both these. 


30
Wokeup on time. Did some chores of the house.
Did https://usaco.org/index.php?page=viewproblem2&cpid=1159
Was doing binary search and overcomplicating it, but binary search is invalid on differences since it is not monotonic. 
But still the implementation was great from my end, and with only slight help and mostly coming up with the full logic 
myself was able to do it.
Still will do it again later to keep this in mind.


I am able to figure out MOST of the solution, but missing 1-2 edge cases and not able to debug. I need to be exhaustive 
and have much more resilience towards getting total AC, and not just think of a problem as done. This will only come through 
practice and patience, not from just banging my head on the wall. I also need to take AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE from a problem. For 
now with most problems its fine, but I need to get to hte point that I can finish my list of problems and do any problem 
next time I encounter and complete my todo again list. That will ensure I have crossed this threshold. However i am still in 
much better shape than I was. 

Ate a lot today (junk like bhujia oreo etc). Calories exceeded a bit today. Will eat less from tomorrow. Today was around 
2500

4 sets weight today. Did less but thats a mistake and a limitation. Will do more from tomorrow. Will need to complete the 60+ sets 
decided. Won't happen unless I do tomorrow and day after tomorrow 15+.
Didn't do guitar as well. This week will complete book goal, but 600 pages per week feels rushed and even feels like I am not
enjoying the book. Will complete 400-500 pages a week is a good goal, maybe a good goal to take in info as well as not to 
feel like I rushed everything. Will also have goals for guitar as well because I am feeling very very bad.



1
DIdn't wake up on time. Totally messed up by having bhujia a lot, and not having dinner, which messed up sleep.
Also I swear to not have bhujia unless I get to 49 weight. 

Today goals: 1 USACO session. 1 contest and full upsolve. 1 session guitar. 80-100 pages book. Walk 1 hour. 
Weights 15+.
Never take help of clankers. Its better to fail with dignity than get a solution riddled with guilt. Never take help from 
ANYONE. Learn on your own and struggle on your own on things that actually matter. Google is your friend.
For things that require thinknig, think on your own. For things that require doing and knowing, learn and do.
1 USACO bronze DONE.

https://codeforces.com/contestRegistration/1702/virtual/true
Do this 

https://codeforces.com/contest/1702/problem/C
From here make a 2 hour timer and do the rest of the problems. I am getting very very hungry. 
Walk 1 hour. Book around 80 pages, wasn't able to do much because of fatigue at the story complexity. I cannot 
sustainably read more than 50-60 pages daily of any book without comprehension taking a MAJOR hit.
Weights 11 sets.
Judge things from output, not input. From tomorrow and next week will incorporate more of it.


Also am not able to do guitar. It is causing me immense pain. I will set weekly goals for guitar output as well 
next week and do it. For rest 2 days atleast do 1/2 session religiously.


2
Wokeup on time. Didn't sleep THAT much, but still its fine. Slightly less, but will only sleep from 10-6 and anything else
will compensate on another day. No napping unless I am fainting or there is a big task.
Today:  https://codeforces.com/contest/1702/problem/C upsolve from here and see all solutions of this contest.
1 USACO problem. done
60 pages of book. 100 done.
20 sets of weight. 10 +10 14 done, will complete all tomorrow.
1/2 session guitar. Can't do it. Need to find a way to integrate book reading properly and from next week will focus on guitar more 
like 14-15 hours per week and then increasing it to 30.
I still feel bad but if I do guitar today it will kill the flow of other things and make me nothing with an ambition of all.
Will do 1.5 hours guitar tomorrow. Also need to be consistent as missing something leads to a cascading effect. 1 missed hour 
in the morning or 3 days ago means much greater pressure for the future. I need to keep this in mind. Need to work hard so that 
my future self thanks me.
This has been a major learning this week. Even though i achieved some goals, I need to go full force from the beginning of the week  
itself. DON'T DELAY ANYTHING.

1 USACO bronze done. 
I am doing much better than before. But still the ratio of  flow vs nonflow is around 1:3 throught the day. Need to reduce the 
non flow activities to 0 and catch myself immediately and correct it.
I am unable to give contest now because I delayed it and now its very hard. Tomorrow will analyze and upsolve the one I intended 
today. Also I am eating less so everything is much harder.
From next week will give contests Monday, Wednesday and Friday and upsolve in same day.
During contest days will attempt 1 problem, or else attempt 2 per day USACO. contest from 9-11:30 AM.

14 sets weight.




3
Today: 2 USACO problems.
Walk 1.5 hours. Exercise 16 sets 
From today have a very restricted diet. Have the BARE minimum it requires to work, and eat on time, but NEVER have more 
than 400 calories in a meal. 
150 pages of don quixote 40 done.
Guitar 1 session. Won't be able to do. Again I am having difficulty with guitar. From tomorrow will do it in regime.

1 set USACO done but no problem.
I am deriving much more pleasure from solving USACO problems than giving contests as they involve topics 
i haven't really finished. Focus more on solving, but give contests 3 a week still and keep in mind the topics encountered 
and the ideas learnt. I am not willing to do contest today, but still from next week I will do it fully and 
make contests my learning ground as well. Its fine to not finish this, because solving USACO is the MAIN GOAL.


https://usaco.training/
I also need to finish this in the upcoming 2-3 weeks to make myself ready for most of silver problems.

https://usaco.training/usacoprob2?a=jkUWjYT0Myj&S=gift1 DONE. 

2 done from USACO training. 
Now I am able to get pleasure and actual output from USACO problems. I just need to increase efficiency both of learning 
and thinking.

Was able to do 3 sums and was able to progress very quickly and easily beyond the sum I was stuck on in USACO training.
Now from tomorrow will do more USACO training sums and aim to complete this and silver.
6 sets weights




20/4-26/4

1. 10 USACO problems. 5 done. AM able to do, but can struggle more in the hard ones. ANd move on quickly 
after struggling and come back to them again later. Will do from next week.
2. 2 virtual contests with FULL upsolve and analysis. 1 done. Cannot really upsolve on the topics 
i haven't really done from USACO since it becomes lots of extra work. Focus on USACO majorly. Now contests are 
for practice of the mindset mainly, and just rehashing what I already know. But don't learn new things from contest yet.
That I will focus on problems where I have done the USACO module for. The ones I leave will keep decreasing as I get to usaco 
gold first half.
3. Walk for 1 hour while reading book/listening to audiobook daily. (reduced it to have consistency and patience) DONE
4. Weight target 51.1 now 51.6 with slight food. Not sure what it will be totally empty DECENT 
5. 6 tasks from work list. 5 done 
6. Perfect routine. Perfect exercise and guitar. No social media. No distractions. ALMOST DONE
7. Have a diet of <1500 cal everyday and activity >2 hours total walking/running + weights. 15 sets weights daily or 
30 sets every alternate day. DONE but weights CAN BE IMPROVED A BIT. 


20
Woke up on time.
Solved 1 USACO. https://usaco.org/index.php?page=viewproblem2&cpid=645
Did it myself, but I need to make my implementation better so that i can implement without any help under pressure, as well 
as I need to implement abstract functions that are being reused. I need to have implemetation skills so that I can do it under 
pressure without any help.
2 sets weight. Need to do more.
Walking 1 hour. Didn't do more because it was not needed. Slept because of low caloric diet. 
15 sets weight.
2nd tried USACO but couldn't progress much.

1 session of work. Apart from that didn't do much. Guitar and book are remaining for today.
Guitar 1/2 session. Book 1/2 session. Need to structure it so that 1 sessions are done. Minimum is fine but slept so messed up 
a bit.


21
Wokeup at 8, slightly late because I am getting tired due to not eating much and exercising more than I did previously. 

45 mins of USACO but wasn't able to do that sum. 
https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/632/C
1 book session. 
Exercise goal: 15 sets weight and 1.5 hours walk. 
2 work tasks done. 
7 sets weight. Becoming very hard doing it everyday. 
walk 1 hour. 
No guitar, as was too tired. Need to have more motivation. This weight loss and less food is messing things up a bit. 
Patience, Deep Focus and Consistency are my biggest weapons. I need to consistently achieve my targets, and avoid overshooting 
things in the daily. Patience and Consistency is a better alternative instead of huge work in any given day. 



22
Wokeup on time. No bhujia or other things. Need to diet extremely clean and below 1200 cal daily.
Tried the USACO https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/632/C but still stuck. 
Exercise target: 15 sets weight. Will increase it to 30 in one day and then alternate it with jogging. 
8 sets weight done. Will do more in evening. 
15 sets total done. 
1 hour walk.
Just need to focus a bit more on USACO, and waste a bit less time. Now some time around 3-4 hours per day is being wasted, and also 
efficiency in work tasks for eg can be better. But apart from that everything is good.

USACO wasn't able to do, will try again tomorrow. Today remaining. Book and Guitar
Book reading fine. But guitar only 20 mins. Need to do more, and get more time. I need to keep guitar and books on standby 
and do 45 min sessions whenever possible.


23
Task: Same exercise, USACO and 1 contest. Work 1 task. Guitar 1 session. Book 1 session. 
Find more time for guitar and book by doing it during small downtimes. 
Always be in a flow state. I can still maximize it almost by 5-6 hours.
https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/632/C
This solution was very simple but not simple to arrive and slightly hacky. Required very deep knowledge of how custom operators 
are working. Will keep this in mind.
USACO 1 done. 

Calories => 500 bhujia oreo coffee + 100 banana =600+ 500 dal chawal bhindi+700 cal barbatti aloo roti 5 total 1800 calories 

Need to continue this for 2 months to see any progress. Need to walk> 2 hours DAILY and weights 15 sets daily. 
Slowly need to be so efficient that I can run 45 mins alternate days and do weights 30 sets alternate days. Till then 
will need to squeeze out time from work and other commitments to lose fat. 
Contest: https://codeforces.com/contestRegistration/2184/virtual/true

ABle to do contests, but certain types of problems that I haven't yet practiced in USACO from those topics are still a concern 
to me. Its not a major issue, since the problems themselves are easy. Once I have a habit of regularly giving contests and encounter 
problems and once I am able to get to half of USACO gold, this should stop being a major issue.

Still fine. Can focus much better than what I am doing. But still not bad, maybe 8 year old phelps in intensity.
1 hour of walk.
6 sets weight. Need to be able to do more. Cannot really find a sweet spot of calorie burn and eating, need to work 
more intensely. 
Didn't do guitar. Its suffering now. I need to have extreme intensity so I can do guitar properly, since its very very hard.

Book reading good.
Also changed routine a bit, will wakeup at 6, and not really work beyond 8 except very urgent tasks that are high 
leverage that can make me standout. If that happens will eat time out of book reading, and then compensate in weekends.
Guitar shouldbe the absolute last casualty. IN this stretch of me adjusting to this system and increasing intensity,
guitar has been a casualty for a long time. NOT ANYMORE. I SWEAR TO NEVER MISS A DAY of guitar from now on.

Diet: Go as lowest as 1 coffee in morning, 3 rotis or equivalent for lunch and dinner. Also do 1-2 hours of walk 
and weights 1 session daily. Only do weights alternate days when you can do 25-30






24
Wokeup at 6.
Did 1 sum. Did good. Can do better than this. Target 2-3 USACO sums before 11 AM now.
I will upsolve the contest today before trying 1 more.
Book reading 1/2 session. Won't do work today as its useless now. Just need to complete my personal task list, will do 4-5 tasks 
in the next 2 days.
https://codeforces.com/contest/2184/-> Upsolve this 
Done. Nothing much to upsolve as the topics are from late silver and early gold. The sums themselves aren't that hard, but  
its fine for me now to just give contests instead of understanding all problems. When I do the topics, it will be much clearer.

https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1472/E stuck in this 

Walk 1 hour. Protein fine. Won't do weights todya. will Do 25-30 tomorrow and see how much I can do while keeping a low diet 
and walking 1 hour. 
Iliad done.
Guitar 45 mins. Need to do 2 shifts, because 1 is too hectic. But still today was excellent. I can only be happy when I 
exhaust myself totally and have immense flow. Without it, its impossible for me to be happy.
I just need to do more guitar, I can squeeze 30 hours a week in MOST weeks of my life even when I achieve all my goals. I 
just need to increase my efficiency enough so I can do that. But its fine. If I keep this momentum and keep refining it, 
it should happen. From today, guitar shouldn't be missed ANY FUCKING DAY. 



TBH Now the only things that are "remaining" is getting to the level of efficiency where I can do work, USACO, guitar, 
exercise and reading, alongwith maths i.e. imo inmo sums and system design. That can happen when I get very good at USACO 
as well as efficiency overall. This is elite and will definitely make me surpass even ivy league grads, but I will be able to 
do it not before I get good at USACO, and complete till platinum, and get good at work. I need to make this elite 
efficiency a target and do that. Once I get into this simple rhythm and keep USACO as the main focus, things should align.
If I chase everything I will fail. My routine now is simple and doable, I just need to do the boring grind and increase efficiency
and once I get good at one thing, other things I will be able to solve. Be it system design or mathematics or physics 
or hard problems at work.


25
Trying https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1472/E but stuck 
Had some issues with sleeping due to nisa and other things. 
Stuck even after trying for 1 hour. 
https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1472/E Way too hard. Couldn't have thought about it even if I tried.
Prefix sums + sorting + binary search.
But still I was able to progress decently based on what I was thinking. I had thought of binary search 
These kinds of problems I won't be able to do without giving lots of contests. I know everything individually but synthesis 
comes later. Its fine. I am keeping silver problems on standby anyways till I complete gold. So it will work out once i
reach mid-late gold.
From next week will also focus on completing USACO bronze all sums I have left. And also aim to complete Silver by doing 
all the normal problems from all sections and understanding all the theory. Now in graph. Still 5 sections are remaining.

5 sets weight. Cannot do more because of sleep and getting too exhausted by low diet as well as walk. 
Walked 1.2 hours.
From tomorrow will track weekly weights so that my muscle mass doesn't reduce alongwith fat. Need to do 60+ sets weekly.


26
Contest day
Do 1 contest and upsolve and do 2 USACO problems today or atleast try your best to.
https://usaco.org/index.php?page=viewproblem2&cpid=1304
Stuck in this, need to ensure I can do it fully myself. Its just bfs/dfs with pruning, and best state check. I can definitely 
do this. I have to just implement it the best way I am comfortable doing.

Stuck in USACO. Not able to work because sleep is improper. Just feeling miserable. Need to stop talking to clankers and work 
furiously. Its fine, atleast I am trying earnestly which wasn't happening before. Now I just need to increase efficiency .
Didn't do contest, but will do 3 next week to compensate. ALso its not THAT useful now anyways till I complete the otpics. I just 
need to try and get to 2 USACO sums a day. That will be the sweet spot. 

Won't sleep at daytime. Will do a bit more books and guitar. Will again furiously do it tomorrow as I am able to sleep properly.
It will WORK. I WILL FORCE IT TO.
1 hour of walk. 1 session of book. 
I need to force myself and try much harder, and much more furiously. Be a warrior. The point of life is very clear to me, I just 
have to embrace the bleakness, and just keep working. There is happiness, but it is only at the end of sunday when I have already 
worked 100 hours that week. Thats the only satisfaction that exists.

Didn't do guitar as well. I DON"T understand why it keeps becoming a casualty. Need to focus and do EVERYTHING I am planning for the day
Its nonnegotiable.


14/4- 19/4

1. 20 problem solving strategies problems NOT DONE
2. 14 USACO problems positively. 2 USACO sessions daily and 3 on weekends . 4 DONE 
3. 4 virtual contests 2 NOT DONE
4. 20 neetcode problems NOT DONE
5. 6 tasks from work pending tasks list. NOT DONE
6. Guitar 1 session a day atleast. Half session at 10 AM DONE
7. Book reading 1 session a day DONE
8. Perfect routine. No time wastes. 2+ Work sessions, 2+ coding/math, 1 guitar and 1/2 exercise everyday. Book reading 
can be done in middle of work or on small breaks. DONE
9. Walk for 2 hours while reading book/listening to audiobook daily. 
10.Weight target 51.2 


14
Goal: 3 USACO sessions 2 sessions but unable to do a single sum. 
Work: 2 tasks 1 KT session DONE  
Guitar: 1 session. 45 mins in morning.
Exercise: 15 sets. Squats 5 
Book: 1 session. 1/2 session 

Didn't wake up on time. Masturbated once and was thinking its fine because its after so long. But even once in 3 months 
I don't like it. I cannot do it ever in my life again. It just doesn't resonate with me. I don't even like doing it. 
I like porn and manga, but even that I should just restrict to once every 3-4 weeks. Its just not who I am. I will see later 
if I like sex or not, but masturbation is just not me.

I just need to show immense intensity during the day. Its good now, but it can be VERY VERY good. Need to do it from today.

Tried 1 hour of USACO but still couldn't do the problem Stuck in a rut. 
Did 1 more hour. Still couldn't. But i am still not being able to concentrate as much as I am capable. Need to concentrate 
fully with deep focus. 

Work 2 sessions.

Exercise is remaining. And so is guitar. From tomorrow need to also focus a lot more on USACO and sums. 
Exercise 10 sets 
Guitar 1/2 session. Will do 1+ session from tomorrow. From tomorrow it has to be as intense as humanly possible. 
I can do it. Follow routine everything perfectly. No wasted movement, and immense intensity mixed with calmness. Like A duck.



0 USACO. Work 2. Guitar 1/2. Exercise 10 sets


15
Wokeup on time. Good routine at morning. I need to be calm, and work on my soft skills. I need to have leadership 
and clear thoughts and I need to constantly be the suave and leader personality mode, no matter what situation. 


Goals: 2 neetcode, 3 USACO sessions, 2 USACO problems either by seeing solution bit by bit or solving, 
2 work sessions and 2 tasks from work. 1 KT session for work. 1 book session, 1 guitar. 12 sets exercise. 

5 neetcode done.
1/2 book session 
Did a bit more neetcode, but should have done more USACO. Will do from tomorrow, today a lot of time got wasted in the morning. 
I am still not locking in 100%. Need to do that asap. Some small things are getting in the way of total lock in. I can 
do it, but its mostly procrastination and just small time wastes during the day adding up. I need to fully adhere to a set 
routine. 

7 sets weights. 





16
Goal: Watch one opera, wakeup on time. 3 neetcode. 3 usaco sessions. 15 exercise sets 
Guitar 1 session.  1 book reading
1/2 book reading done. 15 mins USACO session. Need to do a lot more, not able to lock in because of fatigue 
and mental problems of not being able to wakeup due to dreams. Need to solve this issue. Mostly the solution 
seems to be full focus in the limited time I have and teaching each second as sacred and something I cannot waste.

1 session neetcode. 2 done. Can do improvements on their solutions. But apart from that nothing much. 
15 sets weight. 
1 session USACO. Stuck in a sum for prefix sums. 
https://codeforces.com/contest/2008/problem/E
Did it. The whole logic was correct. It was just annoying one off errors.
1 session USACO. 1/2 neetcode. If I focus on 2 full sessions, I will be either 95% close to most problems in USACO silver 
or just do atleast 1 problem. I CAN do it. The key is to learn and not repeat same mistake and keep thinking hard. This 
is what improves you. Not getting the green tick. 



17
2 Work sessions. Do atleast 2 tasks pending from the list. 1 neetcode session. 3 USACO sessions, try and do atleast 3 sums total.
1 math session
15 exercise 1 session. Guitar 1 session. 1 book
Wokeup on time. 1 session of USACO. 1 problem learnt but didn't do. Will try more and aim to do it myself. I knew the pattern 
but didn't know how to implement it. Learnt it now, will apply it.
No work task today. Not doing it because I am struggling to finish USACO first which is more important. 
stuck in one problem. https://codeforces.com/contest/1826/problem/D

Trying this as well but stuck 

https://usaco.org/index.php?page=viewproblem2&cpid=1064

Not done any neetcode. I am able to work somewhat, but I need results and learning ASAP.
Will read book, guitar and exercise properly today. Now its a bit too late to do much. Will try from tomorrow and will do with 
a lot more intensity. EVen sleep wasn't proper today. 

Exercise 12 sets.
Guitar 1/2 session. Book 1 session. 
Can do more intensely. I am intense, but with USACO specially and work I need to be almost 10 times more intense. From tomorrow 
will do it more perfectly.

18
2 Work sessions. Do atleast 2 tasks pending from the list. 1 neetcode session. 3 USACO sessions (1 contest + analysis), try and do atleast 3 sums total.
1 math session
15 sets weight jog 30 mins 2 times. Total exercise 1 session. Guitar 1 session. 1 book
Didn't wake up on time today. Its acceptable because I am getting very tired for the past 2 days. But still this is not good as  
a habit. Will need to recalibrate a bit and hormonal changes due to weight loss as well will need to fit in properly alongwith 
changing routine. This cannot be habit, but ocassionally acceptable.
https://codeforces.com/contestRegistration/2137/virtual/true
Give this.
Difficulty having concentration due to lots of chaos at home. Need to find a calm spot, and also my fault as well. 
Need to concentrate no matter what is going on.

I am able to do 3-4 now. Need to increase it to 5-6 within 1 month.

Task: Upsolve and learn everything from the editorials of all the sums in this
http://codeforces.com/contest/2137

Tasks remaining: Exercise and jog, bath and grooming, Guitar, book, Work today is optional. Will do tomorrow 

I will be able to solve 4-5 problems if I concentrate and i practice contests frequently. 

Upsolved a bit. Will do better from tomorrow. 

1 session book. 1 session guitar. 15 sets exercise. 30 mins walk.

No math session. 


19
2 Work sessions. Do atleast 2 tasks pending from the list. 1 neetcode session. 3 USACO sessions, try and do atleast 3 sums total.
1 math session
15 exercise 1 session. Guitar 1 session. 1 book
1/2 guitar. 
Stuck in a rut done. 1 USACO. Good job.

Not really in a mood for more USACO as I need to go to sher e punjab today. Will do more book reading, and guitar and exercise 
today. 
1 USACO is fine. No work session as well, but decent, will do more work sessions and USACO from tomorrow. Now routine is also god 
and intensity is at par with 8 year old phelps. Just need to iron out somethings and get privacy for my tasks. Thats it.
Now I am not facing much issues due to motivation, or self sabotage. Haven't done reddit, or other things.
Exercise 16 sets 
Book reading 2 sessions

  
 
5/4- 13/4

1. Do 5 problems from problem solving strategies Engels DONE 
2. 8 USACO problems 3
3. 2 virtual contests. DONE 
4. 10 problems from neetcode 
5. Perfect routine. Atleast 2 work sessions, 1 coding/math, 1 guitar and 1/2 exercise DONE 
6. Never waste any time DONE 
7. Read approximately 500 pages from books. DONE 

5
Didn't wake up on time on purpose
Book reading 15 mins 
Lots of house work 
1 math from problem solving strategies. But not even that. 
Guitar 30 mins
Book reading 60 pages 
Didn't do exercise because of pain. Will do tomorrow.

6
On time wakeup. 
3 sums of math problem solving strategies. 
Book reading 30 pages. 
Haven't done weights till now,w ill do 10+ before sleeping.
10 sets weight done. Tomorrow day for squats and chest presses. Will do 15 tomorrow.
Good diet. protein good 
I am so ahead of all my peers and in the realm of greatest men to have ever lived, its crazy. Even at a "late start" 
my philosophy is extremely sophisticated, unique and long term. I just need to ruthlessly execute for the next 30 years 
and compound for next 50-60 and let time and world take care of the rest. My routine is now about 40-50% of the intensity 
I want. I want in this year intensity of around 9 year old phelps.


7
1.5 hours of usaco, but couldn't do the problem. DFS keeps failing and bfs I haven't implemented yet. It only passes the original 
test cases and not the other ones.
2 work sessions. Did a lot. But still intensity is very close to ideal, but not ideal 
Good things overall. Didn't do exercise on purpose. Will do 20+ sets tomorrow 10 sets twice. 



8
Wokeup on time. 
45 mins of work. 45 mins of thinking for USACO problems but couldn't execute the BFS, struggling with the min max idea 
Giving https://codeforces.com/contest/2171/countdown today. Will upsolve as well.
I just need to stop being so lazy. I can get extremely lazy and I need to lock in and focus hard, and work extremely extremely 
hard. I am very close to the 8-9 year old phelps intensity. I need to get that ASAP.
1 hour of contest. It was very bad, getting stuck at c1 and couldn't concentrate on a simple problem. I just lack the 
habit. I need to build that. Will give contest everyday.
I need to focus on contests more, and give probably atleast 4-5 a week.
https://codeforces.com/contestRegistration/2179/virtual/true
Will give this as well today 
Did till C, can definitely concentrate and do more. But today tired, so won't attempt. Will focus on work now. 
I need to get to atleast 3 contests weekly. By next week I should get to 2-3 full contests weekly with analysis 
and full concentration for all contests till the timer goes to 0.
11 sets weight today. Will do 5 more. 
1 hour of book.
4 hours work.
Didn't do guitar, struggling with managing with full focus everything. I am able to do 3 things with focus now 
Work USACO and book. Need to focus and manage time better so I can do all 4 things. Since guitar is intense 
it got skipped. I could have done that but kinda chose not to because of tiredness. Will compensate tomorrow. 



9
https://codeforces.com/contestRegistration/2126/virtual/true
Give this today with full focus. 
Goal: 1 contest with upsolve and analysis detailed. 3 hours guitar and book complete blood meridian. 

Didn't do exercise today because it wasn't needed. Will alternate with 30 sets in one day and none in next from 
tomorrow just to check. Will do 20 sets in morning and 10 evening or something similar. 

Got to 5 done. NOw I will upsolve tomorrow. 
In 1.5 or maximum 2 months I need to get to the point of doing div 3 fully. 

Was able to concentrate for around 1 hour today. Tomorrow will upsolve this and day after tomorrow will do 1 more
Now I will be able to have an intense routine everyday. Now everything is fine. I have 8 year old intensity of phelps 
now. 

Today will just do some book and guitar. Tomorrow will also work on work a bit. 

Its very close to phelps intensity now. I am able to do everything. Today was very happy since I watched a movie,
went for tiles and still was able to do a contest. Tomorrow will do a lot more intense. From next week it will be very 
close to 8 year old phelps. After that the struggle will be consistency. Intensity i am very happy with now. 
Just next week I will also do almost all my pending tasks at work, just to make a lot of progress. That will be possible 
from now on. 

VERY HAPPY. Now need to produce measurable results. Very happy internally. Now everything will depend on external  
results. NEED TO LOCK IN.

From tomorrow just will do a simple math. Always start a clock or atleast watch it, concentrate for a minimum duration, 
and only look at solution once done. Also analyse deeply the solution for a minimum duration before moving on. 

The thing is I have come very far, and tbvh I am very ahead of my peers but only if I capitalize on my advantages. 
I have huge advantages, just i need to set aggressive targets and see lots of results. For now I am not doing result focused 
changes. Huge results need to happen by the next 1 year. 
Completed all the goals. Finished blood meridian.


10
https://codeforces.com/contestRegistration/2123/virtual/true
Give this today. 
Goal: 1 usaco sum, 1 codeforces contest, 1 small session of work focused task, guitar 1 session, book reading 1 session 
25 sets of weight. 5 done 
https://codeforces.com/contest/2123/problem/C
Did 20. Will do 5 more before sleeping. 
Book reading 30 mins remaining.
Tried to do a lot of USACO, but not being able to focus today. I NEED to time it so that I can do it in morning, any other 
time becomes too hard to sustain. Today will do more book and get ahead on that aspect. Also will do a bit more weights around 7-8 sets 
to compensate.

Maybe I am getting a bit fatigued. Will increase motivation and focus from tomorrow. I CAN do this. But again got excited due to 
book. But a good thing is read a lot today. ANd practiced guitar 30 mins as well. Will coordinate a bit better from tomorrow 
so that by monday I can work hard, do usaco/contests AND do books and guitar and exercise. All in one day.  I have the 
intensity. I CAN DO THIS.



11
Goal: 2 USACO sessions 1
Upsolve from https://codeforces.com/contest/2123/problem/C 
Run 45 mins Not needed
Work 1 session 
Book 1/2 DONE
Guitar 1 DONE
1 USACO done.
Binary search done.

Now its much better than before. But still motivation dips, I am still getting slightly distracted by online things, and 
slightly the time is being wasted. I need 0 wastage of movement. I will need to be much more resilient and keep going 
even when I am satisfied to squeeze as much out of the day as possible. Will take a bit slow today, finish my book, 
and do guitar and exercise. Tomorrow will do 3 USACO problems and compensate. Will see what the outcome is. 
Completed things fall apart. 
Now getting very happy, but still I need to ruthlessly cut down distractions, have ZERO wasted movement, and 
keep going for more even when I am getting happy and slightly satisfied with daily tasks.




12
Goal: 3 USACO sessions 
5 Neetcode problems 
Weights: 25 sets 
Book 1 session Guitar 1 session 
Woke up on time. 
Tried 1 USACO sum but stuck in it
Did 1 session but still stuck.
Book 2 sessions 
Focused but couldn't do more beyond
5 sets of weight. Couldn't do more because of tiredness. Need to think of a way to balance everything better and have more 
motivation. Getting too angry at little things, and letting my focus drift. USACO and Work and Guitar are the 3 most important 
things. Books and Exercise will suffer a bit, but diet shouldnt at all, and exercise should correct itself in the whole week.
I can do this. From tomorrow will focus better on USACO and Work and Guitar.




13
Goal: 2 USACO sessions 
5 Neetcode problems 
Exercise 45 mins 20+ sets  
Work 2 sessions
Book 1 session Guitar 1 session 

Woke up on time. Did USACO for 15 mins. Will do more today.
Need to waste zero movement, and be very very motivated and productive from today. Need to focus extremely hard. 
I CAN DO THIS. Now I am very close to 8-9 year old phelps intensity. Need to keep it extremely well

Did 30 mins of USACO. Will do 2.5 hours more today 
With what I am doing, becoming a billionaire will become impossible. I NEED TO LOCK IN. I need extreme intensity and 
zero wasted movement. I ams till getting 2-3 hours wasted, and laziness for 5-6 hours in the whole day. Need to make those 
ABSOLUTELY ZERO. 
Stop talking with fucking CHATGPT. Its shit and useless product. Use it for coding, but only because it works. Even 
then use it like autocorrect. Double check everything, and never ever ask an opinion. Use it for mathematical tasks and 
approximations and bouncing off things. Like a soundboard or synthesizer. Its nothing else. 

10 sets weight. 
Will do more tomorrow. 
1 work session. Still lots of tasks from list are pending, will complete most of them this week 

Tried a lot for USACO sum but couldn't do it yet. Will try my best before sleeping. 
Trying USACO, but maybe I am not concentrating as hard as its needed. I think it will require much more. 
Also I am not trying in one sitting. I am trying, but in small chunks of time, not giving myself enough time to go deep. 
I need to go deep and try much harder.






29/3 - 5/4 

1. Do 1 neetcode session everyday. Complete 10 problems NOT DONE. Focused more on USACO  DECENT but can do a lot better
2. 7 USACO problems. DECENT. CAn do a lot better.
3. Complete atleast 3 tasks from work list. Do atleast 2 work sessions on work day DONE 
4. Guitar 1 session everyday  DONE 
5. 2 virtual contests and upsolve. NOT DONE AGAIN FOCUSED ON USACO THIS TIME
6. Exercise and perfect routine everyday. DONE 
7. Don't waste a second online and in idiotic things. Sleep if you want to rest, but dont EVER waste time. DONE 


29 
Woke up on time. Started on neetcode and on 1 sum. 
Couldn't do one sum. Book reading 1/2 session 
exercise 13 sets  
Will do 10-15 sets everyday.
Did 1 USACO problem. Can do more from tomorrow.


30
Woke up on time. Did 1 usaco problem.
Wasted like 5-10 mins. Got distracted by happily doing USACO. I shouldn't do it. Its very obvious 
and easy and nothing for my ambition. I haven't hit even 1% of what my ambition demands, let alone 100%.
Need to hit 110% consistently in order to even make a dent.
Still I am defaulting to some time waste, mainly on linkedin, youtube and reddit 
Around 30-50 mins wasted today. I need to lock the fuck in. Its not enough. I am 
doing much better, but I need Stanford grad level intensity and that is not happening right now.
It needs to be close to 10-11 year old phelps now. 

5 sets weight today. Will do 10 a bit later.

Didn't do any other. Will do 15 tomorrow.


31
Woke up on time. Stuck on 1 problem. 
routine is good. Also did 1 book reading session 
But still stuck in 1 sum
Still stuck at 1 sum. Other things are good. 
Didn't exercise yet, but will do 20 sets before sleeping no matter what. 
DId 11 sets today. Will do 10 again tomorrow. Need to do atleast 10-15 sets daily. No breaks.
Skipping guitar intentionally today. Because I need to lock in totally and do atleast 1 session of USACO/leetcode 
and 2-3 sessions of work to justify 1 session of guitar. I will try again and give my best tomorrow.

1
Now I looked at the rating and it makes sense why I am stuck. Its 2000.
DONE 
USACO 1
Book 1 session 
Exercise 12 sets 
Guitar 30 mins 
Will do more as I am more satisfied with my work of the day. 


2
Woke up on time. 
Tried one sum but stuck again. Trying graph now. 
Aiming to complete all the normal and easy sums in USACO silver, before jumping to gold. 
5 sets of work 
Lots of work today. Will be able to do more USACO and shit next 3 days.
Tried 1 usaco sum but wasn't able to do it.
Didn't do exercise yet. will do before sleeping. 
1/2 session guitar.



3
Woke up on time. Again stuck in the bfs/dfs 
Diet was good. 
Cheesy solution threw me off as I was expecting something provable.
For silver easy/ Normal-> 1.5 hours of thinking -> solution 
Hard-> 3 hours-> solution 
Gold -> double that of silver. 
No need to give too much thought. And even then don't fixate on solutions you miss. Competitive programming 
has everything, cheesy solutions you will miss, and obvious things that don't feel obvious. Key is to keep learning 
and solving as much problems and encountering challenges. I didn't miss something obvious, I just wasn't looking for it. 
30 mins guitar 
1/2 session book. 
Had good diet, lots of protein. 





4
Didn't wake up on time on purpose 
Goals today: 1 book, 1 USACO, Exercise 20+ sets, Guitar 1
Exercise done 6 sets today. Will do 14 more. 
Stuck in a usaco problem. 
10 sets done now 
total 16
Tried a lot but getting TLE and WA for the sum. I am very close though. So I will try tomorrow again for 1.5-3 hours 
if I cannot do it will just see part of the solution, implement and move on. 






























16/3/2026-28/3/2026:
1. Every day should be perfect. ALMOST DONE.
2. Exercise 5 days a week DONE
3. Log everything perfectly  DONE
4. Minimum sessions all. Atleast 1 maximum session a day. DONE
5. Wakeup on time. DONE 

16
Wokeup on time. Did reading 1/2 session.
1 session of Leetcode. 2 sums.
No exercise, but fine. Other 6 days will do it. 
1 session of work.
Just think of one step at a time. And always keep the big picture in mind. Nothing, not your appearance, 
nothing else matters in the big picture. But your flow and work. Those are the ONLY THINGS that count. Focus on them, and 
do anything it takes to make them better so your mind is calmer.


17
Couldnt wake up on time because of fleas. Will solve this problem permanently today.
Won't do exercise, will do walk today evening.
20 mins of book.
AC work going on today. Will do atleast 1 set of work and 1 set of leetcode today once that is done.
3 hour work.
30 mins book.
Didn't do walk as well today. Will have to do everything tomorrow
Lots of time got wasted due to mainly AC work and just BS. Need to do better.
1 leetcode session.



18
1/2 session book
1/2 session exercise. 15 sets weight and planks.
Got up on time 
1 session of coding.
2 sessions of coding. 1 work session.
For guitar I am struggling, because for nessun dorma lots of tab writing is needed. I am struggling with this. From tomorrow 
will start something else as well to keep me engaged. Today just did 15-20 mins.

19
Normal day. NOthing much at all due to going to kolkata 

20
Wokeup on time. Changed routine a bit. 
45 mins of Leetcode.
Will exercise in evening. Some days its fine.
1 session leetcode 
1 session exercise 18 sets and plank 
1/2 session work 


21
Wokeup on time. Coffee. 3 sums neetcode. 1 session.
Bathroom cleaning
Lots of miscellaneous work. But still good day. Was able to do a lot of sums and 
studying for interview. From tomorrow will do it more intensely.
Good diet and decent exercise.
Two ticks. Will do 3 ticks and absolutely perfect and intense routine from tomorrow.

22
Got up on time. Slightly early but thats fine as I had slept in the afternoon.
I can do phelps/alex/perelman intensity from age 8 now. Do it.
45 mins of leetcode.
Will do 25 sets today in total. weights+planks+squats.
17 sets done. Won't be able to do more because it was too hard today.
No planks and squats. Will do tomorrow.
Had bath.
Decent intensity, definitely not phelps level. But getting close now.

Always be intense. Figure things out. Be creative. Be brave. Be you.
50 years clock has officially started now. I have finally become capable enough to work extremely hard and 
have solved ALL the issues I can have. Now its all about repeating the routine and intensity
ad infinitum and being an extreme learner.

1.5 hours leetcode.





23
Missed a bit. But decent work 4 hours. 
1 session of leetcode. However was stuck in the sum.
Good day. Diet. But no exercise. Will do tomorrow.
I will consider it a totally successful day when I deserve to, and can do atleast 1 session of guitar.
From day after tomorrow, the routine will be extremely great. 
Also got distracted by an opportunity for interview today that is ongoing with Jitesh and Precision AQ 
Good day, but I can do perfect everyday. I just need to focus. Getting a bit distracted by day to day 
tasks and day is getting over before realizing what I missed. I just need to preserve and guard my time 
furiously and work properly. It is possible. Even if I reach some intensity of that I will be good. 
But it seems I am pretty close to 8 year old phelps. Just i need to have 3-4 very intense days in a week.
Slowly I will be able to have the stamina and convert it to 15-16 year old phelps intensity. 
Now I am able to reach it in bursts, I just need to make it a bit more frequent in the week.



24
Goal-> 1 session of interview prep 
1 session of exercise 
1 session of guitar NONE

The issue is I cannot think of anything to prep in interview. What is there to prep? Idk.
But I will just go through basic things and focus on being able to explain my resume.

1 session of interview prep.


Did 15 mins of exercise. Will do 30 mins more in evening.

Didn't do more exercise because was so exhausted. 



25
From today it has to be perfect. Did work for 1/2 a session.
1 session of work. A bit distracted due to interview coming up, and work is a bit demanding because I have to 
do everything. But its fine. I just need to do my best and see what happens. Also I cannot influence other people's opinions,
I can just do work properly and not give people something to complain about.
2 sessions of work done.
3 sessions of work. 
Wasn't able to exercise. Will do tomorrow morning 20 sets. Today was a bit weird. Since I am having a bit of anxiousness 
about what might happen tomorrow. There is nothing i can do, but it feels like an exam.

4 sessions of work done. 
I am doing good, but I need to do much much better. There are people younger than me, doing much more than what I am doing. 
AND if I don't do things urgently, and with flow and focus, time will run out. I need to do everything I CAN in the day 
and enjoy but still have the time and energy to do shit. The thing is social life and other things are getting in the way, 
but I need to manage everything and do everything I want at the same time. Its about energy and focus, not about 
being paralyzed in one aspect but good at another.

5 sessions of work.


26
Got up on time. 30 mins of interview prep 
1.5 hour of interview prep.
45 mins of work.
Bath done and normal routine. No exercise yet, will do in evening.

Interview done. Big task happened today. 
No exercise. Will have to do tomorrow positively and maybe 2-3 days daily to compensate.

Big thing looming for the last 1 month got resolved. Now I just need to focus, do dsa and system design 
and usaco problems every fucking day, and deliver 3-4 focus sessions at work. Maybe it will become to 5 at MOST, but 
not more than that when I join the new company. AFter that anything will be manageable, but i need to lock in 
and have absolutely pitch perfect routine. I am doing that, but not consistently now. It needs to be extremely 
intense and consistent. I cannot take pressure nad give up my routine. Nothing of that stature should happen. I
need to be able to take any pressure, but deliver enough so that the trajectory is upwards. Its about the quality 
of the flow, and I need to maximize that. It aboslutely shouldn't happen that in new job I am working 12-15 hour days 
and not doing my routine. That is something I WILL avoid AT ALL COSTS.


Also have extremely good quality flow, and be extremely calm and there shouldn't be ANY mistakes. Don't rely 
on others to catch your mistakes. Do everything very very very carefully and don't rush anything.  
Have consistent flow everyday, or else your future self will pay the price with anxiety and lost 
routine. Consistency is much greater than bursts of focus. Everyday should be pitch perfect atleast for the next 
2 years.

27
Woke up on time. Did random shit. Didn't do exercise. Will do it positively in the evening.
Did some exercise. But not enough.
Gave interview and happened excellently with 1 hour of discussion.
Guitar 30 mins today. Will be able to do more from tomorrow.
From tomorrow everything will be excellent. I can feel it.


28
Exercise 12 sets , but did in 20 mins 
Also did 1 leetcode session and 1 book reading session. Fine but i can be more intense 
Unexpectedly was very tired. Maybe because of diet and restriction to lose weight. Will do better from tomorrow.
I can do it. Now its atleast stable, and its just about intensity. I know I can do it, its about polishing. 
I am pretty close to 8 year old phelps. Just need to do it more when I am in the zone. 
Its ok to read editorials often. Just have the common ideas and grind down on problems. If I am not able to solve 1 
problem after 1.5 hours, just look at editorial, learn and move on.



29

30

31



6/3/2026-15/3/2026:

1. Do minimum sessions of everything and atleast try to do a mid session of most things. DONE
2. Maximum session of work twice (stretch goal) DONE
3. Log everything perfectly DONE
4. Post on linkedin every 2-3 days  DONE
5. Wakeup on time. DONE
6. Research on job description, and prepare resume points very well. DONE
7. Moisturize legs, do every home task perfectly, and take care of yourself extremely well. DONE


6
Wokeup @ 5
Reading 1 session 
Exercise was only able to do 15 mins. Won't push too much or else tomorrow will tank because I haven't slept properly today 
and exercising after a long time as well 
45 mins of Leetcode.
Posted on linkedin.
No work sessions today because of tables not given. Also got message for interviews. So it would probably happen within 2 weeks.
Need to prepare thoroughly and all points in resume.
Sleep was a bit weird today, so couldn't get time to focus. ALso things got a bit delayed. From tomorrow will be able to 
hit routine perfectly.




7
Wokeup a bit late 6:30 
Read 45 min 1/2
did house work  

Goals today: 
Leetcode 1 session 
Interview prep/Work: 1 session
System design: 1 
Exercise: 1/2 will do walking only to prepare 
Guitar 1


Stuck in 1 problem from leetcode 
Walked 45 mins 
1 session of leetcode. Did 3 problems other than the one stuck on.
Didn't do work or system design, but that was expected today.




8
Reading 1 session 1:30
Exercise 30 mins (1/3)
Sleep is getting a bit wonky. But again expected. Be solution oriented. Every problem is a challenge to be solved.
Don't think of anything as unsolveable and don't sulk. For eg I couldn't sleep today, and woke up 
at 2 and then couldn't sleep. Now I will do even more right things. Eat less at night, nap around 45 mins 
in the afternoon, and do all the work. Sleep is a long term play. You are an athelete, remember that. 
ALways keep in mind Gita and your inspirations. And keep working *50 years*.

Had itching problem today, also sleep got messed up as ended up sleeping twice today. Maybe exercise and 
less food tired me out very much. Only will get 1 tick today unfortunately. Need to make it up by having more 
hours in next 4 days. It will be brutal. But I would need 2-3 work sessions and 2-3 leetcode sessions. Will do
just slightly more each day to make up.



9
Did book reading 1/2 session 
Got up on time. But didn't do much else till now.
DId walk. Also tried doing one sum and focused for 45 mins. But 2 problems are messing me up. 

-> Unexpected work and work piling up for no good reason. PEople disturbing me for input constantly and not being able to 
work properly (This can be mitigated by solving the second problem)
-> Not being able to work due to constant distractions, and me never being alone. I need to be VERY STRICT 
for my work hours and never listen to anyone. AFter everyone wakes up, every work comes to a grinding halt. This cannot happen 
any longer. From tomorrow I WILL FOCUS LIKE A MANIAC.

10
Got up on time. 1:30 hour book reading. 45 mins exercise. 

1.5 hours of focused work. Completed ASC mapping task.
45 mins guitar.
Decent day but can make it much better. Today will go to resturant to celebrate being able to eat after tooth extraction.
Apart from that did only basic leetcode today. From tomorrow will do 2-3 work sessions and 1 leetcode session alongwith 
everything I was able to do today.

11
Didn't do exercise today. Will rest 1 day now to see the effect. 
Book 1/2 session 
Unable to do much except company's work because of pain and very less sleep. Will eat less at night 
or else my sleep gets messed up. From tomorrow the routine should be even more perfect to compensate. Now its 
fine as much of my work got successful and I will also get time to prepare for interviews.


12
Got up on time. Sleep is still a BIT messed up, but that is probably due to exercise. It iwll be fine 
as long as I keep the schedule. 
Did 3 sets of weights. Will eat less today and see if I can sleep. Tomorrow will do more 
weights and start jogging as well from day after tomorrow to stabilize and make heart strong. 
1 session book.
1 work PR(without session)
Lots of work, did walk for 35 mins 
Tried 1 leetcode but couldn't do.
Solved critical prod issues. I Need to do everything as no one else in my team does anything. 



13
Due to lots of fight at home couldnt wake up. 
Reading 45 mins. Man blood meridian is hard to read.
Didn't do much of anything else apart from work.



14
Today morning was great. Did all but exercise is still pending. Will do it in the evening. 
Reading 45 mins 



15



1
Did 3 neetcode problems.
Decent routine. Still a bit difficult to eat because of stiches being present. Will remove tomorrow.

2
Tried one problem. Container with most water. But couldn't progress beyond brute force. 
Did it.
Got stiches removed. Walked around 30 mins. 



3
Focusing on Learning as much as possible now.
Be curious, be innovative, and LEARN as much as possible.
Did 1 neetcode problem. Also focused on book reading, guitar and job tasks.



4
Read book. Got up on time. Did job tasks. Didn't start doing exercise yet. Weight 50.8




5
Changed QM api. Also will look tomorrow at VBC api. For ASC mapping they are giving permissions for the table. 
Looked at the logic and I can do that change. Also Graviton instance I will setup on sunday and monday.














16-28:

1. Complete Binary Search USACO. PAUSED BECAUSE OF TOOTH ACHE. WIll complete Neetcode first. This is VERY HARD for me.
2. Complete 3 neetcode medium everyday 
3. Read system design research papers everyday 
4. Codeforces div3 every 2-3 days. 
5. No sins. Do every task of home regarding renovations, Safai and others.
6. Post system design on linkedin 
7. Do guitar 3-4 hours a day. 
8. Perfect routine.
9. All work tasks perfectly.

16
5 sets weights.
Got up on time. Did work regarding affiliation export and fixed the issues.
Lots of work regarding work. 
Went to dentist. Booked appointment for tooth extraction


17
15 sets weights. 
Worked for company's tasks. Didn't do much else.
Good diet. Had chicken and mutton. Also took tablets. 
Guitar 30 mins.



18
Preparing for tooth extraction, so didn't do much. Just completed QM task.

19
HOLY SHIT WAS IT HARD. Tooth extraction totally made me useless.
Wasn't able to eat, drink or do shit.

20
HOLY SHIT WAS IT HARD. Tooth extraction totally made me useless.
Wasn't able to eat, drink or do shit.

21
HOLY SHIT WAS IT HARD. Tooth extraction totally made me useless.
Wasn't able to eat, drink or do shit.


22
HOLY SHIT WAS IT HARD. Tooth extraction totally made me useless.
Wasn't able to eat, drink or do shit.

23
Still recovering from tooth extraction. But medicines ending today.


24
Never trust AI. Always do code changes and review them properly. Reading code is the most important great skill. 



25

26

27

28

7/02- 15/02:
1. Complete Binary Search USACO.
2. Do all the work tasks on time. Refresh. ASC mapping and release. Discuss with Carissa regarding QM and show her sample 
new ASCs in UI. DONE
3. Complete 3 neetcode medium everyday 
4. Start posting system design and DSA on linkedin. DONE
5. Read system design research papers everyday 
6. Codeforces div3 every 2-3 days. NOT DONE
7. No sins. Do every task of home regarding renovations, Safai and others. DONE


7
did renovation task. Loft cleaning.

8


9

10

11
From 8-11 lots of work related tasks. Also home renovation tasks and just general busyness. Its idiotic I cannot follow my routine.
Extremely tiring. Need to lock in extremely well.

12
Got up on time. Didn't exercise much. But diet is good now.
1 neetcode.

13

14

15


1. Complete USACO binary search

27/01-7/02:
Lots of fighting and home renovation work going on. Now everything is very much in my control. 
NEED to have much more active involvement in home. Its my responsibility to make this house a great place to live.

1. Complete Binary Search USACO.
2. Do all the work tasks on time. Half the tasks should be done in first week of the sprint starting
3. Complete 3 neetcode medium everyday 
4. Start posting system design and DSA on linkedin.
5. Read system design research papers everyday 
6. Codeforces div3 every 2-3 days.
7. No sins. Do every task of home regarding renovations, Safai and others.

27
Exercise 12 sets 
Started reading time clocks 
Work discussed starrocks architecture and worked on claims ingestion checks.

28
Exercise 6 sets. 
Got up early. Did all the routine.
Codeforces div 3 did 3 sums.

29
Did a lot of pending work today. Resolved claims refresh errors. Discussed mapping issue with Deepti.
Most of the priority tasks for work are done. From tomorrow will just do the asc mapping and 
QM apis. Other things will keep going. Will just need to always be on my toes at work and work with focus 
atleast 3-4 hours a day. That will suffice.
Now I just need to keept his momentum everyday. Now will just read ulysses a bit and 
do system design 1 hour.

Skipped exercise on purpose today. Will do 15+ sets tomorrow.

30
Lots of work for home. Bought lots of thing and cleanup

31
Lots of work for home. Bought lots of thing and cleanup
Need to plan everything. Its becoming too hectic.

1
Started giving 1 contest. But couldn't concentrate due to noise outside.
Lots of idiotic things.
A person will die but never ask a man how he is and how are you doing. Nothing is possible with people.
Humans are a trap. If you keep engaging you keep destroying yourself. Engage but only upto a point.
People will only see what a man does, not what he thinks or feels. Its acidic for people to ask how a man is. 


2

Lots of work for company. Couldn't do much of my own. Also work related to home renovations 
and bed.
3

Lots of work for company. Couldn't do much of my own. Also work related to home renovations 
and bed.

4

Lots of work for company. Couldn't do much of my own. Also work related to home renovations 
and bed.
5

Lots of work for company. Couldn't do much of my own. Also work related to home renovations 
and bed.




6
Lots of work for company. Couldn't do much of my own. Also work related to home renovations 
and bed.

7
Loft cleaning today. Need to make an extremely focused routine and focused goals. I cannot waste even a second.
Did lots of work this time for company, also the idiot WFO and naveen are irritating me. I will find a solution.


13/01 - 24/01:

1. Complete Binary search USACO 
2. Finish all mappings. Merge code for everything done till now. DO refresh of prescriber activity. 
Solve the aff export issue.
3. Complete 3 neetcode medium everyday. 5 easy or 2 hard 
4. System design 1 hour. 
5. Weights everyday 15 sets. Jogging every alternate day 30 mins 
6. Get weight to 52.9 kg 
7. Guitar practice 2 hours a day. 
8. No sins. 
9. Codeforces Div 3 contest every 2 days. 
10. Clean teeth everyday. Get filling done within the week.

13
Cleaned teeth. Finished data transfer of prescriber activity and refresh. 
Guitar practice decently. But not ideal.


14
Decent. Nothing much but did some sums.


15
Got up on time. 
did 2 neetcode sums. Sleeping a bit. As soon as I wake up, will do everything to get 3 ticks EVERY SINGLE DAY. 
NO EXCUSES FROM NOW ON. My life and goals are complete. Everyday should be as intense as phelps/alex.

Didn't do any sins. Did the neetcode sums. WIll continue tomorrow and tomorrow also do the USACO problems and work 
tasks diligently.

16
Great work day 
No sums 
9 sets weight 


17
7 sets weight 
woke up on time 
3 neetcode problems 
Guitar 2 hours.

18
Normal


19
X
LOTS OF FIGHTING AT HOME. NEED TO CONSOLIDATE AND SOLVE YEARS LONG ISSUES. 

20
X

21
Most issues seem solved. NOw I need to focus on mainly 2-3 things. Doing every work on time, 
doing some dsa atleast everyday, and focusing and doing deep work atleast 8-10 hours a day.
Did lots of work today and solved many issues, now focusing on dsa and system design. This year 
was good, but can be a lot LOT better, slowly in next 5 months need to get to the level so I can perform at phelps 
intensity in a few months.


22
Again lots of fighting. Did a lot of work. NOW I NEED TO FOCUS AND BE A MAN. Life will keep throwing curveballs,
but I need to keep adjusting and use my idols in order to create a mental model and my own personality that 
solves every problem of mine uniquely. One part of it HAS TO BE, cleanliness, maintaining property, and maintaining 
my place of living. Also it has to include things like designing, planning, coordinating and basically great 
consumption of money and resources 
I have. Buying things, asking for things, researching, and making my home a great place to live in.




23



24

3/1/26- 10/1/26

1. Complete Binary search USACO  X
2. Login at 11 AM on workdays and finish everything assigned  DONE
3. Complete 3 medium neetcode everyday or 5 easy or 2 hard X
4. System design 1 hour X
5. Do 90 sets weights and 120 mins jog  5 weights X
6. Get weight to 53.8 kg DONE
7. Guitar practice atleast 2 hours a day X
8. No sins and perfect routine. X
9. 1 codeforces Div3 contest every 2 days. X

3
5 sets weight.
Did a bit of reddit. Will block completely from today.
2 medium questions neetcode.




4
Got up on time. Didn't do exercise due to cold. Will do at 4 pm.
https://codeforces.com/contest/999
Did 3 questions from here. Will need to upsolve.
Again did a bit of reddit. NEED TO CLOSE IT COMPLETELY. There is just no use. Any use of reddit that I feel 
is useful is just my addiction speaking. I NEED TO IMPROVE MYSELF, or the future will be much harder.
8 sets weights 
1 neetcode question. Need to do usaco as well. Did the contest which was good but will upsolve from tomorrow. I Need LOTS 
of work to get to where I want to be.



5
No reddit which was good 
Worked decent amount.
Need to do CA360 data ingestion.
Need to totally block linkedin as well as other kind of media consumption. TOTALLY. My goal is much 
deeper and more encompassing than most others can imagine.


6
https://codeforces.com/contest/1003/countdown
Do this codeforces contest today.
https://codeforces.com/contest/1003

Started this but couldnt concentrate due to cold and other issues. Need to complete this.
CA360 is done and data is proper.



7
Make a reportsummaryagg table newly in prod1. And check the payer data and other things are proper. Also do 
the payerdata changes in prod.
Saw a movie in theaters after a long time. Need to merge my enjoyment with work and flow.


8
Make a reportsummaryagg table newly in prod1. And check the payer data and other things are proper. Also do 
the payerdata changes in prod. DONE

Run automation for other entities like nursing home, dialysis facility, etc. 
DONE FOR HOME HEALTH


9

10
Masturbated once. WILL NEVER DO IT EVER AGAIN IN LIFE. Porn is fine because it is just so f'd up it resonates with me 
and even if I only watch once a month I just don't think it has fucked me up. Its just reflects the thoughts of who I am 
and that is cathartic.

29/12- 4/1/26
1. Complete 2 USACO problems a day before 11 PM
2. Login at 11 PM and work amazingly and productively 
3. Complete atleast 3 Neetcode problems medium/ 5 easy/ 2 hard per day with all techniques and understanding most ways of 
doing the same problem atleast all multiple common ways
4. System design 1 hour 
5. Complete exercise before 9 PM 120 sets weekly and 120 mins jog weekly 
6. Perfect routine. Bath before 2 PM 
7. Guitar practice 3 hours a day 
8. No sins. Complete all work in company before time.

29
Not much. No exercise. But calmed a bit as home is now proper. Now if anything bad happens I will leave the house 
and go to bangalore. Or call the police. Nothing now can happen. Now all needs to be focused on work and dsa and  
cp.
Guitar practice 30 mins. 

30
TODO: Api & DB changes for payershare DONE
      Payershare i.e. top payers logic change for reportbuilder DONE
      CA360 data ingestion 
      Filling up blanks in description for reportbuilder fields. DONE




31

I am still looking at others and wasting my time. Focus on flow for 45-50 years. Focus on your own journey and push your mind 
and body to its limit. Be hungry and be focused and be full of love for others, not hate and no negativity. Be positive
and JUST FOCUS ON YOUR JOURNEY. The work IS the reward, I WON'T EVER FIND SATISFACTION IN ANYTHING ELSE. Seeing luxury 
and things is just my mind getting distracted because I cannot be in flow and I am failing in that. If I am in flow 
I will be happy homeless. This is just how I am wired. Don't focus on anything external, but do it so that it improves your flow. 
Nothing else is more important.

7 sets weight 







1
Not much. No exercise.

2
Exercise 10 sets 
Worked important work 
1 sum from neetcode. Nothing much.

3

4


17/12 - 31/12

1. Complete intro to bitwise operators 
2. 4 sums from custom operators 
3. Jogging 200 mins 
4. Exercise 200 sets 
5. 5 atcoder beginner contests 
6. Guitar practice 3+ hours per day 
7. No sins. 
8. Perfect routine 
9. Shampoo once every 6 days and cowash everyday or alternate. Oil once every 6 days.
10. Complete all work in exact time.

https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc439
https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc432 Like this write any number less than maximum 


17
Nothing major. Did few sums
Guitar 30 mins 

18
Lots of important work 
Guitar 1 hour
5 sets

19
8 sets weights. Will do 8 more evening.
Tried one atcoder but couldn't do much.


20
No weights. 
Nothing as I was sick.
Guitar 30 mins.

21
8 sets weights 
1.5 hours guitar.
Decent routine. But need to NEED TO finish my sums. 

22
Got up but need to exercise and do bank's tasks. 


LOTS OF FIGHTING IN HOUSE DUE TO FATHER. COULDN'T CONCENTRATE ON SHIT.

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30


31



30/11- 7/12

1. Complete intro to bitwise operators 
2. 4 sums from custom operators 
3. Jogging 150 min 
4. Exercise 80 sets 
5. 3 atcoder beginniner 
6. Complete physician group mapping. Complete 2-3 entities mapping 
for normal entities. Guitar 2+ hours a day. Do release and complete everything at work. 
7. Perfect everything else. No sins ever.

This is my last chance to do everything now at home. I need to join google and other goals need to be on time.
Complete silver and gold by march. I NEED TO DO THIS.

30
Not much. Worked a lot

1
Not much. Worked a bit, no exercise. Aeneid 

2
decent. No exercise. Aeneid.

3
Weights 12 sets. Need to do 8 more. 
Guitar 1 hour. 

4
NOTHING

5
Not much. Worked a bit. Will complete the mapping.


6

7


23/11-30/11

1. Complete Intro to bitwise operators
2. 4 sums from custom operators 
3. Jogging 150 mins 
4. Exercise 80 sets (47)
5. 3 atcoder beginner contests 
6. Complete ASC mapping DONE. Physician Group mapping. Start other entities mapping. 
7. Follow routine exactly. ALMOST
8. Don't do anything distracting and don't do any "sin" DONE

23
14 sets weights 
Completed ASC mapping 


24
3 sets of weight 
Good work. Completed refresh as well.
Completed aeneid book one 

25
15 sets weight 
Not much. Grooming is fine. 
Nothing distracting and sinful. 
Read trial 

26
Nothing much 
No exercise. 
WOrked a lot. 
Need to focus on getting USACO and better. This is getting ridiculous. I need to make time for it and  
focus. Maybe books is becoming an outlet because I am unable to focus here because of the chaos. 
But I just cannot get stuck by this. Need to get up at 7 from  tomorrow and DO ANYTHING to complete 
atleast 2-3 sums a day USACO.

27
15 sets exercise. 
Completed trial. 
Today is release so need to focus and do a lot of work.

28
NOTHING. NEED TO FUCKING MAKE A ROUTINE PROPERLY FOR THIS CHAOS. NEED TO DO USACO. WTF I AM DYING AND KILLING MY 
GOALS HERE. I JUST CANNOT GO ON LIKE THIS.

29
NOTHING 
30
NOTHING

