https://classicalguitarshed.com/free-guitar-sheet-music/
100 beginner songs + 50 intermediate songs + 20 exercises + 10-20 chords
Do it in 6-8 months
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w-0F9yUXkes
Chords-> Learn all the basic and barre chords and learn where each barre chord shape and what chord it will play everywhere on the neck
Identify chord progressions and focus on interval training
My greatest inspiration is randy rhoads. He learnt and basically mastered both the classical fingerstyle techniques as well as metal based techniques. I want to play slightly heavier and slightly advanced stuff, but not too advanced like cliffs of dover or steve vai shit. That doesn't really inspire me. So I can learn both fingerstyle and pick based guitar techniques and play what I want to play and perfect my own sound. Ultimately it will be closer to randy rhoads' style with fast classical pieces serving as inspiration for the electric guitar, but rooted in classical guitar repertoire and focus on melody
Internalise the fretboard. First learn and memorize all the notes. Then all the sharps/flats. Then write random "sentences" and play them on the guitar. more you do this typing practice the more will it help. After these things are done, get good at patterns like scales, and music theory for guitar.
Goal-> Become as technically proficient as possible with many techniques like flamenco, electric guitar techniques and others (try and get to Tim Henson or something comparable melodically), but focus on classical music as that is my main interest. Get to a point where you can improvise basic things as well as play as many classical songs, tunes that you like and want to play on guitar/electric guitar by ear with practice. Have a good musical and rhythm understanding and enjoy.  Pick songs that teach you the techniques you want to learn, and then learn them. Build a repertoire and keep practicing your repertoire while learning new things
 
Try to find yourself through guitar. Learn to read sheet music and all the basics should be done  in 6 months 
to a year like the back of your hand

Learn music like a language, learn the grammar and the theory but also imitate others, and improvise on other's 
thoughts and words. Play any music that interests you but from music theory study baroque

Think of it as a language but you are speaking through your hands. The hands will inevitably move after something 
you have heard or played, but as you do it long enough and vary your musical ideas it will diversify and 
it will become more you.

To get good at music theory, just sing the sheet music, or notes, or anything else.

If you don't get the music you want to play in a form, make it. Either play by ear or transcribe any sheet music 
to your idea


Jimi Hendrix's playing doesn't resonate with me, but his work ethic and love for guitar is what does. Similarly for Tim Henson and Yngwie. I want to develop my own sound and find my own voice with the guitar.
Most people don't really improve after the first year because they don't put themselves out of their comfort zone by playing from ear, mastering songs by mastering parts at a time and getting good at different techniques. After the 1st year, the hurdles will become more apparent, but I know I have the right mindset so I WILL improve after that as well and my main improvement will pick pace once my hands are a bit accustomed to guitar.

Do 2 loops of 1.5 hours of practice in a day. One in the morning and one in the evening.

Plan:
1. Complete Justin all beginner courses.
Goal: Become technically proficient enough to be able to play decently hard classical pieces like Rondo alla turca and also become technically knowledgable enough to be able to play most songs by ear in correct key. Improvise bits of your own in classical songs.

Have a groove and feel the music. Don't play like a robot, become good at expressing yourself through the guitar and letting your mentality, personality and emotions show up in music similar to what I do when listening to songs. Find your sound.

Currently on module 1:
1. goal -> Do 30+ chord changes of A and D per minute. Use a metronome to measure DONE
https://4four.io/metronome
It may take around 2 months to complete justin course

Currently on module 1
Chord changes-> 

Right hand practice-> Fingerpicking patterns-> EGDB i.e. 6th 3rd 4th 2nd (Mainly practicing this now) also called outside inside pattern
Other patterns to practice-> Inside outside pattern, just flip the outside and inside, it will be like 6th 2nd 4th 3rd or 6th 1st 4th 2nd or something similar
pinch pattern-> 6th 2nd usually used commonly 6th 2nd (pinch) then 4th 3rd

Practice slowly, accurately and efficiently. That will be of much greater help. If I repeatedly do wrong things over and over again, my muscles will memorize the mistake and it will end up making me worse in the long run.

According to fernando sor's diagram, push the string from point A to F and then it will vibrate upwards to point G. AFG form a right angled isoceles triangle. Keep the thumb parallel to the guitar body and graze the strings from the left crescent moon side of the right thumb as if you are doing a thumbs up to someone below the guitar. Also when pulling the other fingers, pull it towards your palm, like making a fist with a single finger.

For now follow the correct technique of playing without nails. Growing nails gives you more access to different techniques and makes some things simpler and is "correct" but it is also a preference and if I want I can grow nails in my third year of playing classical guitar. Till then I can execute everything without nails, it will just sound a  bit different.
For every chord, every transition and every song, you have to find your own technique which works the best for you and sounds the best to you. It is possible with any hand size and any anatomy to make a clear sound with your guitar as long as there is no disability

When playing big chords and incredibly difficult stuff, there will be a point when anatomy will restrict you, but it won't come in less than 5 years of practice. After that, it is completely optional to either play and endure some stress, physically or just choose a slightly smaller guitar. No one will be able to tell any difference.

Knowing the guitar fretboard is like knowing your keyboard. It will happen through a combination of practice and focused preparation on trying to become better at it.

Exercises for memorizing the fretboard:
https://www.audiogearz.com/random-music-notes/
1. Memorize all normal notes(without sharps/flats) in a single string starting from the big E. Then move down. Since last is same as first, you only need to do it 5 times. Verbally say the note out loud each time.
2. Select a note and play it on each string vertically on all strings. When you reach the end come back again. Use a metronome (40 bpm). 
3. Select a note and play it as well as next 2 notes in the order on each string and move vertically. Play each run between or on each click.
4. Generate 2 random notes from https://random.bretpimentel.com/. Deselect sharps and flats. Play each note on 1 string and then move on to the next. Use a metronome. Ignore open strings.
5. Using same notes as before, alternate by playing one note on one string and second note on next.
6. Now do the same things as 4 and 5 but with 3 notes
7. Now test yourself by introducing sharps and flats to all exercises and be able to do it atleast at 60bpm
8. Select a random note on the fretboard, and use the octave shape shortcuts to move up and down the fretboard for the same note. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jTCyiq5mjn8
Jimi Hendrix got his first guitar at the age of 15 and by the age of 27 was regarded as the greatest guitarist of all time while being in the midst of a volatile life, having girlfriends, doing crazy shit, joining the military, etc. So 5 years is more than enough time to get to a decent playing level.


Improvisation is one of the greatest joys of guitar. Once you are able to do some of it, never let it go.

With a mix of knowledge of music theory, improvisation and really observing hard and learning the guitar as much as possible and experimenting with different rhythmic and musical styles, I can definitely make solos, do improv and sound good in a 10 year time frame. I may not become as good as prince, but I don't want to give a legendary performance to the world either, I can definitely achieve the goals I want to.
I don't even want to write my own songs, I want to improvise solos, sing and express myself. That is enough.

The greatest guitarists are the ones who learned quickly and started in jazz or blues, so follow one or the other and listen to those kinds of music. Also learn from classical and incorporate those techniques in rock and metal songs.

Once you get the basics right and once you are able to play what you want to play, it becomes about improvising and just playing using listening skills, and internalising music theory.

Learn to figure out the key of a song instantly. Internalize that shit.

Start with classical and make music made for violin and piano into electric guitar. That is my first and major goal. Then find your own sound and master the technical aspects of guitar as well as music in general as much as possible. This is a lifetime endeavour but great progress can be made in 10,000 meaningful hours.

Combining classical guitar with edm, rock and metal like playing IS my jam, but NOT polyphia or something similar.

Play songs that you like + some different ones that are technically challenging. Love challenging yourself and keep pushing. You won't be anything similar to anyone, or even comparable, but you will be you.
Unlike most things, music is not competitive in nature. The more the better.

The diversity of this instrument boggles my mind, but I will do it.

Even the greatest guitarists say there is no door to creativity, but I will find that door. Through flow, emotions and focus, I will open that door and show that at any age you can do it and at any endeavor of your choosing.
TRIAL AND ERROR. TRIAL AND ERROR. Take on new things and master the hell out of them

I am confusing practicing with performing. I am not in the performing stage rn. I am in the practicing stage. Practice, Jam and Practice more and more. Only then you will be able to do anything worthwhile. After a while it all begins to fuse.

Music is about patterns. How many patterns you have in your brain and how many patterns your hand remembers are important. See what patterns you don't have, and what patterns you want. Visualise them and do anything you can to get them.

Music is about quality not quantity. Quality of practice, Quality of song mastery, quality of rhythm, quality in every aspect of guitar playing (if you actually are interested in the guitar).

Throw yourself in the deep end. Learn to swim. Learn to survive.

If I can stretch my brain enough, my body will follow.

Do atleast 1 line a day for any classical piece of your choosing:


Learn each in atmost 2-3 hours(divide in sections)



Routine: 
1. Chord practice-> All chords and changes between them-> 30 mins
2. Strumming practice-> 30 mins
3. Songs -> 3 hours
4. Fretboard knowledge-> 1 hour
5. Music theory-> 1 hour
For chord practice, play blues and practice songs with chords in them..
For strumming and song practice, find songs that have the techniques you want to work on, and master the songs. Also keep the songs in your muscle memory.

Never be afraid of making noise. There is very little difference, but if you are afraid of crossing the line, you will never advance.

Currently doing: 
1. Ode to Joy
2. Blackbird https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T9jMYfDFyP8


Philosophically speaking, I like thematic music. Picking an adjective/word/emotion/situation and improvising around that would be my thing to do once I get the necessary skills. The key is to relate to it and somehow internalise the emotion and then channel it to the guitar. If I do it in a cerebral fashion, it will be inauthentic.

Its a process of learning, internalising and forgetting. Internalise the fretboard in the first year. Also learn to have relative pitch.


Experiment with different strumming patterns:
1. DDUUD
Also for strumming patterns, keep your hand moving. Try different patterns and make your own patterns. Practice so that you can instantly get into any strumming pattern you want.



In order to be fast, you have to work very slow. Or else you are making your mistakes fast.
Constantly keep working on your technique. Technique and proficiency is an ongoing process and there is always vast rooms of improvement.

As you progress, make your brain get used to more and more complex patterns

Chill if you cannot play the F major barre chord yet, some people practice it for months to ring out properly. 

Hold your guitar like a sitar when sitting cross legged. That will help with good angle on the fretboard and help ring out notes clearly without having a classical guitar posture.

Technique is also about being comfortable with the guitar. Doing something in too prolonged fashion is obviously bad for the body, and even the best posture is bad if makes you uncomfortable and suits your needs. When you slowly become comfortable with the guitar, you will be able to play barre chords behind your back without any problem. Till then you will look like a fish out of the water no matter how you hold it. Just keep doing whatever is comfortable while generally aligning with some small core principles, and listen to your body and keep adjusting your posture if needed based on surroundings, comfort level, etc.

Music theory basically makes hard things easy, but it also distracts you from the hard things. Once you get comfortable with circle of fifths and crap like that, standard template music is the only thing that "makes sense". From day 1 be uncomfortable. It is extremely hard and there is a very steep learning curve. But its all internalized patterns and I want to go as far in THAT road as possible. I don't want to learn music theory, I want to internalize music.


All I need and want is just a chord book for chords, internalize chords and figure out chords, chord progressions in songs alongwith the key. There is not always a right answer.

Music is a dance between intellect and feeling. You have to hone both simultaneously. Both feed into each other.

I am getting too overwhelmed by the breadth of genres. I don't need to focus that much on beat, or a specific genre. I am much more interested in melodies and melodic ideas. If a beat there, I will try and play with it, but even when a beat is not there, the tune should create the beat. The melody is more important and even more, the ideas behind the melody is what I am interested in. Even if my personality is expressed by a single note, I am fine with it. But there has to be the ultimate melody that I want to be after.

If you are comfortable with the guitar, you will be comfortable with any posture. Just choose the posture you can practice hard pieces in for long hours without any noticeable difficulty. If you have any (even the slightest) difficulty (not minor problem, actual difficulty) when  playing certain piece, chords or whatever, change it immediately. Till then since I am observing and inculcating the posture of good players , I should be fine for 99% of things I play.

Your style will emerge naturally as you play, learn, experiment and free yourself. Imitation is just a first step, but you can pick and choose whatever you want to imitate and learn from. Trust the process

Its a lot of work, but thats the point. There are no absolute goals as such, there is just work, work, work.

The concept of the singing guitar from the blues is what I REALLY LIKE. Making the guitar have its own voice, and singing through the melody is what is really important to me. I think the other part of blues is kind of the african american culture, and I don't want to imitate it.


Its only about 2 things, music and technique. First you have to play the notes you listen, then you have to play the notes you think. First it will be directly influenced by whatever you have listened and whatever is deep in your mind. Then slowly it will get filtered and your authentic thoughts will emerge. Its like this with any other language. This is the journey and I am ready to go as far as possible like in all journeys I undergo.
I don't really want to make marketable music anyways, all I want is self expression in life. That is all I need and for that technical skill is the foremost criteria. After that the journey is pretty personal, but I just need to be focused and trust the process instead of getting distracted by other people.

Sound is the king. Always focus on the sound. If it is not as desired, do anything to get it. If it is fine, move to a different more technically challenging piece or better sound whichever is more appealing at the moment.

We are such visual creatures, we become so focused at how something looks that we forget how it sounds. For guitar, how it sounds is the most important. Everything else is a choice.

The key is to know how you are feeling and then express it. For expressing it you need some technical skill, but just learning  some basic techniques and paying attention to if it sounds like you want it is the key. If you are feeling sad and angry, play with aggressive string bending and fast. If you are feeling like on the clouds, play some flamenco with strumming. If you are feeling melancholic, play chopin. Things like this is the key.

Practice harmonics using left hand on the 5th, 7th and 12 frets as well as 9th 4th for advanced level. Produce a clear sound and practice for a month. Then learn gymnopedie both using harmonics and normally.

Experiment is everything. Experiment with a pick, without a pick, with your asshole, anything you want. Play the exact same thing 10 different ways, play 100 different things in the same way, doesn't matter. Just see where the journey takes you. Its all about staying outside your comfort zone. Do everything you can in order to improve your connection with the instrument. Playing with a pick is part of it. Learn as much as possible by staying outside your comfort zone, and once you develop your sound, you will know what feels right and what is the best way, others won't simply care about those details, but for you it will be satisfying. That is the only way of learning an instrument. Ultimately what you feel is correct. Think about things, know the technicality, try everything and push yourself constantly outside your comfort zone, but ultimately let your feeling guide you to your sound. The aim is to not sound like Tim Henson, or someone else, the aim is to sound like you.

I am seeing using pick, or using different techniques as additional work, which is just a wrong way of looking at it. It is not "additional work", it is just another way of improving my connection with the instrument. Do whatever feels right. For me the reason I bought a classical instead of acoustic and used fingers even though for beginners fingerstyle is considered harder, is because that is what I have always felt like doing ever since I saw the guitar. That is the only possible explanation. Do even the disgusting things, as long as it involves the instrument as it will only improve things. The beautiful thing is once its done, its permanent, and no one can take it away from you, but if you keep delaying and avoiding it, you will only be doing yourself a disservice.


Always slow down whenever you are doing something wrong. Correct it first, have great quality before moving on.

I can buy the most good looking guitar on the planet, but it won't look good unless I look good.
Its a tool that gives more power to the wielder, but the wielder should be worthy and complement it as well. First step is to develop your personality, dressing sense, style, etc, and then find a few guitars that will complement that. Once you do that, it will enhance and then people will say OH WOW WHAT A COOL GUITAR, but they wont say it unless I look good in the first place, else it will be a bad contrast and I will be a wannabe cool guy which is pathetic

The first electric guitar should be just a squire or some beginner guitar.  First play whatever you want to play in the most high end guitar possible in the cheapest good sounding guitar you can afford. Once you have a good repertoire, go for high end models.

Art is 99% imitation, and 1% creation. Good artists imitate, great artists steal...shamelessly

Pick a song you like, practice it so much that you don't have to think about any aspect of it anymore, then repeat.

You just master the basics and intermediate things first, for the advanced stage, it can get tailored to your own style. Like Allan Holdsworth was Allan Holdsworth, Jimi was Jimi, You have to become HARSH. That is the only goal.

Bucket list:
1. Fender american professional II hss
2. Ibanez prestige az2402

1) Pick a natural note, then play it on each string (down and up) on frets 1 through 12. Do this 3 times, and move to another note. Then do this for frets 12 through 20. Once you have done all the natural notes twice, go to ex #2. 
2) Use a metronome at 40 BPM. Play one note per beat, and repeat ex #1. 
3) Repeat ex #2, but do it for the accidentals. 
4) Choose any two notes. Play UP in one note (across each of the six strings) and DOWN on the other note (without stopping). Use the metronome @ 40 BPM. When it feels easy, go to ex #5. 
5) Write seven 7 notes in random order. With the metronome @ 40 BPM, play the first note going up, and the next note going down, etc. etc. for all 7 notes. (without stopping). When it feels easy, go to Ex #6 
6) Repeat the exercises 2 through 5 at BPM speeds 50 / 60 / 70 / and 80. When you can do Exercise #5 at 80 BPM you are finished.


Learn all the notes on the fretboard, Then learn to read sheet music atleast slowly so that you can figure out how to play something by reading it and figuring out the fingerings and chords by yourself. Also learn to play by ear so that you can figure out the chords and notes and fingering patterns by yourself.
Learn these things from piano books by alfred. Translate any sheet music to guitar and figure out fingerings and picking patterns on your own. Learning from piano is best way to get good at music theory

What is Jimi Hendrix to a lot of guitarists, for me its Randy Rhoads


Chords to learn->
C major
G major
D major
E major
F major 
A major

A minor
D minor
B minor
C minor
E minor

C7
D7
E7
F7
G7
A7

Csus4
Gsus4 
Dsus4
Asus4
Asus2

Cmaj7
Fmaj7
Gmaj7

Am7
Dm7
Em7


